The Security Council has unanimously extended the mandate of its United Nations (UN) Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara by six months, while expressing its full support for the intention of the Secretary General and his Personal Envoy, Horst Köhler, to initiate a new negotiation process before the end of this year. Köhler has invited the foreign ministers of Morocco and the Polisario Front along with immediate neighbours Algeria and Mauritania to a round-table meeting in Geneva, starting December 5, the first such direct engagement since 2012. Twelve votes were in favour of the six month extension with three abstentions from Russia, Bolivia and Ethiopia. Despite welcoming progress on the ground, Addis Ababa’s envoy Taye Atske Selassie Made said their concerns raised in negotiations, particularly the question of self-determination, were not taken into consideration in the final text. “It is Ethiopia’s consistent position that a just, lasting and mutual accepting political solution which will also have the ultimate objective of attaining the right to self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. In this context of arrangements consistent with the principles and purposes of the UN charter, is the only viable option to solve the issue of Western Sahara. While we are looking forward to positive progress at the Geneva talks in December, we reiterate our firm conviction that any meaningful progress on the peace process still hinges on respect to this fundamental principle.” During the negotiations, a number of countries including France advocated a one-year renewal, in line with the Secretary-General’s recommendation. A one-year extension was also preferred by Morocco but pen-holder the United States felt an extension beyond six months was non-negotiable. US Ambassador to the UN, Jonathan Cohen says, “As the United States said in April, we’ve embarked on a new approach on MINURSO’s mandate. First there can be no more business as usual on Western Sahara. Second, we must lend our full support to personal envoy Kohler in his efforts to achieve a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that will provide for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. We’re encouraged by the progress made in the last six months, we welcome personal envoy Kohler’s decision to restart a direct negotiation process beginning with a roundtable in Geneva.” Morocco’s envoy Ambassador to UN, Omar Hilale insisted that the peacekeeping mission’s mandate and the peace process needed to be de-linked. Hilale says, “Political process is something, the mandate of MINURSO is something, its mandate is in the field to supervise and monitor the ceasefire and to help for CBMs (confidence building measures) and de-mining. Political process doesn’t depend on MINURSO, doesn’t depend on what’s going on in the field. It depends on the political will of all the parties, so that’s one side. Those who believe that there will be pressure on the parties, I personally don’t think that it will be considered as pressure on Morocco – because Morocco will never cede to any pressure and the mandate can be reduced even to one months, we will adapt ourselves. The most important is to give change to the personal envoy to work quietly in the serenity and to give him time.” The Frente Polisario’s envoy to the UN, Dr Sidi Omar earlier told journalists they hoped the council would demonstrate that it was serious about pushing for substantial negotiations. When Omar was asked what his expectations of the Geneva meeting in December were, he said that given that this was an initial meeting, they wanted an agreement on the way forward to further substantive talks towards giving the people of Western Sahara the ability to express their internationally recognised right to self-determination,  in a referendum or otherwise that confirms this inalienable right. Click below to watch related content: 