Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan has explained in detail his relationship with former SARS Commissioner Tom Moyane at the Commission of inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg. The hearings have adjourned and will resume on Wednesday. Gordhan said earlier that Moyane was supposed to have been accountable to him as the Minister of Finance. He says on a number of occasions, Moyane refused to account to him on an executive level as he, Gordhan, was the main stakeholder as Finance Minister, at SARS. Gordhan has also told the commission that Moyane made a number of changes to operations at SARS without consulting with him as Finance Minister. “Accountability to the minister means accountability to the minister i.e. you follow simple administrative processes. The second level, you report on the day to day operational results all of which are the annual reports of the revenue service.  Tell the new minister this is what is going on and find the first possible opportunity to brief the minister.  See if he or she is comfortable with where you’re going. That’s simple accountability.” Gordhan also said that due to the corrupt nature of the SABC and TNA Breakfast shows, he decided that National Treasury would not participate in them. The breakfast shows, which were broadcast on SABC 2 and the 24 hour news channel in the mornings, saw ministers taking to the show for interviews on progress made in government. Gordhan says the breakfasts involved the Guptas and it therefore wasn’t worth being part of the endeavour. “The New Age i.e. the Guptas and the SABC had an arrangement that they would be the ones that would do these sorts of transmissions.  Particularly they started with these sorts of breakfasts after the SONA (State of the Nation Address) that the President delivers. We decided as the Treasury that we don’t want to be part of that arrangement implicit in that if explicit to the fact that we don’t want anything to do with the Guptas.” Meanwhile, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema, says the fight against white monopoly capital will intensify until all South Africans benefit from the country’s economy. He says they’ll not rest until Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan is shown the door by President Cyril Ramaphosa because they claim he’s the agent used to fast-track the interests of what he calls ‘white monopoly capital’. Malema was addressing hundreds of EFF supporters outside the venue of the Commission of inquiry into State Capture. “He’s a dog of white monopoly capital – we must hit the dog until the owner comes out – once the owner comes out we must deal decisively with the owner. Pravin is a cabal that belongs to the UDF and destroyed all good African comrades. He’s no good this guy.” Watch related videos below:  