Dam levels in the North West are the lowest in the country. Water and Sanitation says the province’s dams were about 76% full in October last year. The average is now just 57.5%. Fish in the Kromellenboog Dam near Groot Marico are consequently dying. The Riekert Dam, is a mere 30% full, compared to last year’s 80%. Even more alarming is the Kromellenbogen Dam, which is at only 2.5% full, compared to last year’s 51%; meaning that fish perish in large numbers. Levels drop quickly, due to little rain, and high evaporation in the extreme heat but farmers who irrigate illegally, are the biggest culprit. Using up to one month’s water quota, in just one week. Susanne Kalcic, Chairperson of the Marico River Forum: “At this stage there’s a lot of illegal irrigation and abstractions going on upstream from the dams. They are not regulated by the government. Court rulings from many years ago are not enforced. It’s not police… More and more pumps are put into the river, pivots pop up.” Kalcic explains that if this continues without intervention, the effects could be devastating… “If our dam runs dry, we will be bankrupt. The food security… We employ thousands of workers on this irrigation scheme. Some of our fresh produce are exported to Botswana. We supply the fresh produce markets in Pretoria and Johannesburg. Seed maize is produced, soy beans… It will be a catastrophe. Bankruptcy, unemployment… We will lose our farms. “ JP van den Berg farms potatoes near Tosca. He has installed water meters on all his dams and uses up to 40% less water for irrigation, than his allowed quota. Van den Berg: “Irrigation farmers often get a bad rap, but many of us do a lot behind the scenes to preserve water, and we ensure that water levels stabilise to the point it was before planting season. That is why I submit myself to an audit every two years, to ensure the image I portray, is positive.“ The Department of Water and Sanitation, acknowledged receipt of SABC’s enquiries but did not respond. Watch below as N West’s Kromellenboog Dam runs low: 