The African National Congress (ANC) says it is all systems go for their 107th anniversary celebrations, to be held at Durban’s Moses Mabhida stadium in January 2019. The party held a media briefing in Durban led by its Head of Organising- Senzo Mchunu and Head of Elections- Fikile Mbalula along with KwaZulu-Natal Secretary, Mdumiseni Ntuli. The party says its Thuma Mina campaign and recent activations in KwaZulu-Natal received a huge turnout. The ANC’s Head of Elections Mbalula responded to a question in relation to the recent Bosasa donation made to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign, ahead of the party’s conference in 2017. Mbalula says the ANC, should its structures deem it fit, will ask their leaders to disclose where they receive resources for their campaigns. “We are in an era of dealing with issues head on and linked to that in terms of the structures of the ANC and who was involved in terms of the campaign, it is a matter for the ANC if it wants to deal with that.” “Even the person I supported we had a nice campaign but I do not know the budget, we had a campaign, everybody had a campaign, Jeff had a campaign, Lindiwe Sisulu had a campaign, It is a must, and Zweli had a campaign we had very interesting campaigns.” Commenting on some members and leaders of the ANC who take the party to court, Mbalula says they believe in the law of the ANC. He says they have also taken a decision not to expel those who have taken the party to courts across the country. Meanwhile, Mbalula says the party has taken a decision to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. He says the party feels it owes it to the commission, and South Africans, to table its side before the commission. Fikile Mbalula says: “We have never ran away from the Zondo Commission including what is being said about members of the ANC individually and what has been said in that commission about the ANC itself. Our movement led by Cyril Ramaphosa has taken a decision to appear before the Zondo commission, we are not under pressure.” Mbalula stressed those former leaders of the ANC including former President Jacob Zuma and Thabo Mbeki will participate in campaigning for the ANC, for the coming elections. Click video below:  