Members of the community in the Modjadjiskloof area in Limpopo have accused police of not taking action against a local businessman who allegedly illegally demolished the houses of some families on his farm. Michael Toulou demolished the houses on Friday, stating that the occupants owed him rent for the past 11 years. Toulou did not furnish the families with a demolition order from the court prior to destroying the houses. Community leader Micheal Rametse says they are disappointed that Toulou has not been arrested though the court did not authorise him to act as he did. “The police are not assisting but of course they are part of the problem because when the demolitions were happening the police were there, and we don’t know if after taking part in the demolitions they can help us. Now we want the law to follow its course. We are from a meeting with the station commissioner, all that they wanted know is whether the shops will open or not and we are saying it’s not a matter of us saying the shops must open or must not open; it’s them to tell us what the law has done so far so that people can have confidence because where we are now nothing is happening,” says Rametse. Meanwhile, Toulou’s business properties in Modjadjiskloof have remained closed. They have been closed by protesting community members since Monday, demanding that Toulou rebuild the demolished houses. Some shoppers say the closure of the businesses is an inconvenience,“I had come to the bank and found it closed, now I will have to go to Tzaneen, and I don’t have taxi fare, it means I will have to hike,” says a resident. “I am unhappy because the businessman just demolished their houses without even giving them alternative accommodation,” adds one of the residents. Provincial police spokesperson, Moatshe Ngoepe has denied allegations that they are reluctant to arrest Toulou, saying they are investigating several charges related to the matter. “As the police we have got a responsibility to react when there is a report, immediately a member of the community is complaining about particular people we react.  At this stage we are still investigating all what happened but along the way there are also criminal cases which were opened and all those cases are also still being investigated, in terms of the situation we are still patrolling the area we have deployed enough to make sure there is law and order in the area.”