The contributions made by tens of thousands of Italian prisoners of war in South Africa during the Second World War have been remembered at Zonderwater outside Pretoria. The President of the Zonderwater Block Ex-POW Association Emilio Coccia said that because of the support, compassion and humanity of Colonel Hendrick Prinsloo – the camp commander – many POWS had the opportunity to work outside the camp. By August 1942, 500 POWS had started construction on the Montagu Pass between Oudtshoorn and George.  This was followed by work on the tunnel and main road through the Du Toit’s Kloof mountains. Others worked on huge irrigation schemes such as the one in Upington where 1 500 square kilometres of farm land were irrigated by canals which brought water from the Orange River. Other irrigation projects that benefited from their labour were at Vaalharts, Olifants River and Riet River.  Over 30 000 Italians contributed to the economic development of South Africa.  The South African Air Force (SAAF) also employed 1 726 as labourers in 19 of its commands. The prisoners who chose not to co-operate with the Allied Forces and remained in the camp participated in cultural and recreational activities such as music, art, sculpture, theatre productions and manufacturing all kinds of items from jewellery to furniture. Renowned sculptor Edoardo Villa was one of those who came to South Africa as a prisoner of war after being captured in Egypt with about 63 000 other Italians.  He remained in the country after the war.  His striking work “the prisoner” stands at the entrance to the cemetery. Coccia said this year’s commemoration held extra significance as it marked not only the 75th anniversary of the Cenotaph at Zonderwater, but also 100 years since the end of World War 1, which is also known as the Great War. The Italian Ambassador to South Africa, Pietro Giovanni Donnici, spoke of the emotional significance of the site at Zonderwater not only for the Italian community in South Africa, but also in Italy. He said from here the new Italian community in South Africa was born. After being released, more than 1000 decided to stay in the country, and later over a thousand decided to return to start their new lives. He added that a few months ago, the Italian Continental Commission of English-Speaking Countries decided to hold their meeting in Johannesburg, but what they really wanted was to come to Zonderwater to pay tribute to this unique site. Paolo Ricci at almost 99, and the last survivor of the Zonderwater camp, received a round of applause as he was assisted to lay a wreath.  He has attended every memorial since 1947 to pay his respects to former comrades-in-arms who are buried in the cemetery. Other wreaths were laid, among others, by the Department of Correctional Services, the SAAF, the German Defence Attaché as well as the Alpini National Association and the Carabinieri National Association. The service ended with the Catholic priest blessing the graves as a South African Air Force Museum Alouette helicopter dropped rose petals as a final tribute. Zonderwater was the largest Allied POW camp in Word War ll.  At its height, the camp established in 1941, was home to 86 000 Italian soldiers who had been captured in the Italian colonies of Abyssinia and Somaliland in East Africa, and Libya in North Africa.  The camp was only closed in 1947 because of the lack to transport to take the Italians home following the end of the war in 1945. The remains of 277 soldiers are buried at Zonderwater.