Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says President Cyril Ramaphosa should do the honourable thing, come clean and apologise. This after President Ramaphosa on Friday corrected a response he gave DA leader Mmusi Maimane. The response related to related to R 500 000 that security company Bosasa had deposited in the trust fund account of his son, Andile. Speaking on the sidelines of the EFF consultative forum with the financial sector, Malema says the President must come clean, with hindsight of knowing the repercussions of coming clean. ” The President must take full responsibility and do the honorable thing. What is the honorable thing – he must come clean and he knows what happens when you come clean.” Malema added that Ramaphosa must now declare money that he has received, if he does not do so then he is in breach of the code of ethics. “The best thing the President must do. Let him call a press conference, declare all the monies. Had the story not been leaked to the papers, the question we would have been asking is – was the President going to correct that wrong answer he gave to Parliament? He was not going to correct it. He was going to mislead Parliament like that, so the President knows what’s going to happen on Sunday. The stories are going out on Sunday. I want to see this money that he’s talking about, where he has declared the money. And if he has not declared them, that’s a breach of code of ethics. He knows that.” In a statement, the Presidency confirmed that security company Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson deposited R 500 000 into the trust account of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s son, Andile. In a letter to National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, Ramaphosa says that the money was a donation to his election campaign for the ANC Presidency, but adds that it was made without his knowledge. Malema says these revelations show that the President’s account was incorrect. “It has since come to the President’s attention that that is not what the payment was about, rather it was a payment that was paid into a trust account by a campaign which was to support his candidature for the Presidency of the ANC. Now the President himself feels that it is important that he clarifies this matter because he had inadvertently provided information to the National Assembly that since turned out incorrectly. The President has also requested the Speaker share this information with other members of the National Assembly so that it is corrected on the record.” 