The African National Congress (ANC) in the Northern Cape is facing another threat to its unity just a week before the party list conference. Disgruntled party members are accusing the ANC Provincial Executive Committee of side-lining them. At least 70% of Northern Cape ANC branches are expected to take part in the list conference in December. Some Northern Cape ANC branch members say they have been left out in the cold – unable to attend the upcoming list conference. They are fingering the Executive Committee of sowing divisions in order to benefit their favoured candidates. Disgruntled ANC member Harry Moleko says:”There is no unity but it is not from the branches, everything filters down from provincial level to regional level and eventually it will end up at the branches. We seem to be more confused either than giving directions to our voters on the ground.” This is not the first time the leadership of the Provincial Executive Committee has been questioned. In recent weeks, a group of ANC members took the PEC to court in an effort to halt the list conference. Since taking office, the same PEC has been faced with more than two court cases for their election to be set aside. Northern Cape ANC Chairperson  Zamani Saul says:”There’s never been a single moment where there were no disgruntled members and as the ANC provincial executive committee, our responsibility is not to give prescription to comrades who are sick, who are disgruntled.” However one political analyst believes all the infighting is not a good sign. Political analyst Andre Duvenage says:”We must take into consideration that at this point in time, the ANC is fighting for survival when it comes to the 2019 elections. There is a possibility that they end up in a scenario below 50% especially if these disgruntled members throughout South Africa are going to mobilise against the ANC or just not going to vote.” The ANC’s Northern Cape Chairperson remains adamant that they will not be deterred by disgruntled members and that their efforts can be judged by the growth in membership. Related video click below: 