Former Cape Town Mayor, Patricia De Lille has laid criminal charges against four Democratic Alliance  (DA) members. She says they have tarnished her name and have spread defamatory information about her. De Lille says the decision to lay criminal charges against some of her detractors is part of her mission to clear her name now that she no longer occupies public office and has resigned from the DA. De Lille has set her sights on four DA members: Mike Waters, Henk Hugo, Shehana Kajee and Bronwyn Engelbrecht. She has accused them of defaming her good name by allegedly reposting a fake Auditor-General’s report on social media. It implicates her in wrongdoing in the City of Cape Town that relates to the procurement of MyCity buses. “I have done this because it is indefensible that public representatives insult and spread fake news about the Auditor General. As public representatives, you are supposed to be upholding the Constitution of the country. Chapter nine institutions are there to underpin our democracy. I want to teach them a lesson.  I have also written to Speaker Baleka Mbete to lay a complaint in terms of the Ethics Code of Parliament.” De Lille says she, like any other citizen, has a right not to have her name tarnished. “I am still in that mission to clear my name- I have got the law and the Constitution and the truth, not that I am looking for money but it is the principle. My fight has never been about money but it is about the principle and I am upholding the Constitution.” She has also blamed the party leader, Mmusi Maimane, for not taking action against the MPs. “We also need to challenge Maimane who always speaks about accountability. I have always said I am prepared to be held accountable. He failed to hold four senior members of the DA accountable for spreading the fake (news), for forging the Auditor General’s signature and it just shows you the hypocrisy.” The DA has declined to comment. (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v3.2';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));