The South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) says it’s disappointed that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have decided not to meet with the Forum. The EFF earlier said it was busy preparing for next year national elections. Sanef requested a meeting with EFF leader Julius Malema and his executives following his calls on his supporters to deal decisively with journalists whose names he mentioned while addressing a crowd outside the venue of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Parktown, Johannesburg last week. Earlier on Tuesday after laying criminal charges against Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan at a police station in Pretoria , Malema hit out against the media for what he termed being biased.  Malema says ,“Freedom of media must exist with limitation. In the same way that we have freedom of expression, it has got limitations. They are not journalists the majority of them, they write columns, they are analysts. There’s going to be a media blackout on the EFF.” Meanwhile, the EFF says it is not shying away from meeting with Sanef it is just that it is busy at the moment. Sanef requested a meeting with party leader Julius Malema following his call to supporters to “deal decisively” with journalists. Malema also mentioned some journalists by name while addressing a crowd. EFF national spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, says they will meet with Sanef after the 2019 national elections. “We’ve not refused to meet Sanef, we have met them before, we will meet them after elections. We’ve got a lot on our plate, we’ll meet the bosses of journalists,” says Ndlozi. Watch Nlodzi discuss the charges against Minister Gordhan and the issue of journalists and the Sanef meeting  Sanef statement regarding EFF meeting below: EFF REFUSES TO MEET SANEF OVER ATTACKS ON JOURNALISTS 27 NOVEMBER 2018 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has declined a request from the South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) for a meeting to discuss threats and intimidation levelled against journalists in the wake of inflammatory statements made by EFF leader Julius Malema. SANEF requested a meeting with Malema and his executives following calls by him to EFF supporters to “deal decisively” with journalists, whose names he mentioned from the stage while addressing a crowd outside the Zondo Commission’s hearings. One of the journalists singled out by Malema was physically accosted while shopping and others faced abuse on social media. EFF secretary general Godrich Gardee wrote to Sanef on Tuesday, saying the party’s schedule was “very tight and fully booked with pre-arranged meetings and activities up until the elections date”. The election is expected to take place in May 2019. This comes after EFF national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi told at least two programmes on radio and national television that the EFF would be prepared to meet with Sanef. After SANEF’s announcement on Saturday that it would seek an audience with the EFF, Malema tweeted that he was prepared to meet “on condition you don’t bring racist things like this white young boy called Adriaan Basson”. Basson is SANEF’s treasurer and would have formed part of the SANEF delegation to meet the EFF. While we acknowledge Malema’s right to criticise the media, we remain gravely concerned about the threats and intimidation of individual journalists – often women – who report critically on the EFF, and the chilling effect this may have in newsrooms. A meeting with the EFF leadership was the first step in SANEF’s response to these threats and we believed was absolutely essential before the elections. SANEF will continue to seek legal advice on remedies available to us to protect journalists from bullying and intimidation by politicians. Our Council meeting resolved that journalists should feel free to leave press conferences or rallies by political parties if they feel under threat or intimidated. Further, we encourage all journalists to show solidarity and support colleagues under threat by also leaving press conferences and rallies. We further note that the EFF has decided to ban particular media organisations, such as the Sunday Times from their press conferences. Previously we met with the EFF when they banned ANN7 to implore them to reverse the ban. We again condemn the decision to ban Sunday Times reporters. The gravity of these threats to our profession is highlighted by the Human Rights Council, that noted concern at “instances in which political leaders, public officials and/or authorities denigrate, intimidate or threaten the media, including individual journalists, which increases the risk of threats and violence against journalists and undermines public trust in the credibility of journalism”. The United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution in 2017 where its member states (including South Africa) unanimously condemned “all attacks and violence against journalists and media  workers,  such  as  torture,  extrajudicial  killings,  enforced  disappearances, arbitrary  arrest  and  arbitrary detention,  as  well  as  intimidation,  threats  and harassment, including through attacks on, or the forced closure of, their offices and media outlets, in both conflict and non-conflict situations”. SANEF calls on all supporters of media freedom to join us in speaking out against the continued bullying and intimidation of journalists. 