A nine-year-old boy whose body was discovered by cattle herders in the bushes between Ekangala and Kwa-Mhlanga on Thursday has been identified as Nhlanhla Sibanyoni of Section H in Ekangala, east of Pretoria. Police say the search for the suspect who is known to the family and has been on the run since Thursday is continuing. The boy’s mother Thobile Sibanyoni says she last saw her grade two son preparing to go to school on the morning he was killed. Ekangala police spokesperson Connie Moganedi says they condemn the killing of the child who was a learner at the local Sikhulisile Primary School. Moganedi says no one has been arrested with regard to the incident and investigations are continuing. “As the police we really condemn the crime that has been committed. As you know we oppose violence against women and children. We are busy with our awareness. We encourage our community to respect the children’s rights and women’s rights at this moment and we commit ourselves to conduct our investigation. We will never stop and we will never rest until we arrest the suspect.” Meanwhile, Nhlanhla’s uncle, Joseph Sibanyoni says the family is devastated by his death. He says what worries them most is that the suspect is known to the family. “It is very difficult to cope because he was a nice kid, quiet kid. So now when that guy shows up and kills our kid we were really shocked.” Twenty four-year-old Thobile Sibanyoni is Nhlanhla’s mother. She confirms that she had an argument with the suspect a day before the child disappeared. The emotional and sobbing Thobile, who now says she lives in fear, says during their brief morning quarrel the suspect threatened to kill himself and the young boy but never took him serious. Civil right movement #NotInMyName has also added its voice in condemning the killing of the nine-year-old Ekangala boy. Themba Masango is the secretary of the civil movement. He says the continuing abuse of women and children is the reason they are calling for the campaign to be 365 Days. “With regards to the 16 Days Activism campaign once again this is a good as awareness, but it cannot be just 16 days. As a country we are very reactionary. We need to take proactive steps.” Sekhulisile Primary school says it will hold Nhlanhla Sibanyoni’s memorial service on Wednesday. The family announced that Nhlanhla will be buried this coming Thursday at the local cemetery.