South Africa continues to command an influential position in maintaining peace and stability in war-infested countries on the continent. This is according to an ex-army general and representative of the Council for Military Veterans in South Africa, Peter Seloane. Seloane spoke at centenary celebrations to mark the end of World War 1 at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. #RemembranceDay millary veterans observing a moment of silence during the wreath laying Ceremony at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/41YhofUOeZ — Sipho Stuurman (@Sipho_Stuurman) November 11, 2018  Seloane believes South Africa’s role in peace keeping missions will continue to retain the legacy of those who perished during World War One: “I think it has been our first President that his focus was more on the African continent. We are heavily involved in peace missions in Africa where countries are still battling to keep their peace together. And then we stabilised the situation so that we can create the climate that take negotiations and talks so that government can be corrected and put in place forever.” Relatives of the fallen World War One soldiers joined the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) and other world military bodies at the Union Buildings in remembrance of those who died in the war. According to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, 11 000 South Africans perished in the war. Their records indicate 60 000 South African soldiers participated in the First World War. #RemembranceDay wreath laying ceremony underway in Pretoria marking 100 years since the end of WW1 in 1918 #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/kAvAtJgkDS — Sipho Stuurman (@Sipho_Stuurman) November 11, 2018  A former soldier attending the celebration, Quinton Hazel, who also served in various units of the SA Defence Force post both world wars, touches on the significance of the end of World War One. The 83-year-old boasts numerous medals he received for his bravery while still in the army. “Well, it is important in that we participated in WW1 & 2, as well as the Korean War. But it is not about war it’s about the remembrance. It’s not a glorified war it’s about remembering those who paid the ultimate sacrifice. Because the First World War was described as the Great War. The war to end the war, but it never happened. So that it doesn’t happen. We must not glorify the war, the people who made their sacrifices.” Dakile Ndamase from the Eastern Cape, whose relative perished in the first World War, says more research needs to be done about the role South Africans played in the war. He says his relative’s remains are still missing. “Certainly because I benchmark the support of the after war with other countries that actually supported them. The European countries etc. Their families got support more than we got supported. Hence it is important that we have the research properly.” Charles Ross of the South African Legion of Military Veterans says it is important to note that the commemorations are not only meant to remember the combatants, but also civilians who were caught in the cross fire. “Absolutely, because if you look at the numbers they speculate that during the First World War alone, more than 10-million people actually died. And that’s not only the soldiers but also civilians who were also caught up in the fight.” Celebrations to commemorate the fallen World War One soldiers were held in 60 countries across the world, including France. WATCH BELOW: