Political analysts are still expressing concern that the recent cabinet reshuffle and reduction by President Cyril Ramaphosa has not met the country’s expectations. This week, President Ramaphosa announced that the Department of Communications will now be headed by Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams – who will also oversee the Department of Telecommunications.   Minister Siyabonga Cwele has moved from Telecommunications to replace Malusi Gigaba as Home Affairs minister. Former Communications Minister, Nomvula Mokonyane, has been appointed as Department of Environmental minister. Political analyst, Raobaka Kalaote, says she believes the moves weren’t significant enough to allow for major shifts in the political environment. “It was not so much a cabinet reshuffle in my view, just a filling of posts that were left vacant by the loss of Edna Molewa and the vacancy that was left by Malusi Gigaba – so in essence it was just a matter of filling posts.”   “So in terms of the whole makeup of the cabinet, not much change was made to it. Various opposition parties believe we are left with certain ministers that do not seem to contribute positively to the cabinet – that one might say we were promised during the State of the Nation Address (SONA) by the president,” adds Kalaote. Kalaote says President Ramaphosa currently does not have enough room to remove or reshuffle certain ministers – as it could spark outrage within the ANC, months before the general elections. “I think it was a bit presumptuous or ambitious by certain opposition parties to expect so much change with what we have currently. Party politics play a significant role in SA, and it is understandable that the President could not at this stage make so much of a fuss over what was expected by political parties that a shake-up of the cabinet would be imminent during his administration. We are yet to go into the general elections next year so he cannot ruffle feathers particularly coming from a party-political perspective,” adds Kalaote. 