Deputy President David Mabuza has refused to divulge whether he had received any donation from individuals or organisations when he was campaigning for the Deputy Presidency of the African National Congress (ANC). Following the storm that erupted after President Cyril Ramaphosa admitted that Bosasa had paid half-a-million rand toward his campaign without his knowledge, Economic Freedom Fighters  Member of Parliament Mbuyiseni Ndlozi asked Mabuza to also come clean on any such donations to himself. Most opposition parties insisted that questions on donations for internal campaigns within the ruling party are relevant, given numerous allegations of kick-backs involving Bosasa and some cabinet members. Ndlozi requested Mabuza to come clean too. “We are discussing this important question of disclosure. I just want to check honourable Deputy President whether you have received any funding for your campaign as the deputy president of the ANC? If you have received this funding, have you disclosed this funding? Have you disclosed it … this funding that you would have received to campaign, to become a member … to become the deputy president of the ANC?” However, Mabuza refused to heed the call. “If you really insist on the question, put it on, I am here with you. If it’s agreed in your committee … that this question must be asked to me, I will be duty bound to answer it. But this time I regard it as a new question and it relates to the ANC, of which, I am not the Treasurer or the Spokesperson of the ANC.” Mabuza was also asked whether he would be able to request President Ramaphosa to declare his business interests, in line with the Executive Members Ethics Act and Code of Ethics for Members of the Executive. “I am also declaring to the president. All of us are declaring. So, I do not see my role, sort of requesting those declarations.” Mabuza told the house that all public representatives have a moral duty and responsibility to act against corruption in the execution of their constitutional duties. On the question of land expropriation without compensation, he said President Ramaphosa had already explained that the issue would be dealt with according to the letter and spirit of the law. Click below for more on the story: 