The resignation of Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has been welcomed by political parties across the spectrum. Gigaba resigned Tuesday afternoon, after coming under fire in the preceding weeks. In a statement, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) labeled Gigaba a liar, “His stubbornness to remain in office despite the undeniable evidence against him regarding the Fireblade Airport saga and his blatant disregard for the rule of law, have made him a dishonourable public representative and have clearly illustrated that he does not have the interests of the people of South Africa at heart.” The EFF says Gigaba has been a shame, corrupt and unpatriotic during his tenure. “Gigaba had been a Gupta stooge who was the engine of state capture under Jacob Zuma. He ensured that the Guptas attain citizenship in South Africa, aiding them to qualify for deals with State Owned Enterprises,” says EFF. Democratic Alliance (DA) Leader Mmusi Maimane says while he welcomes the resignation of Malusi Gigaba, this does not exonerate him from facing prosecution. He says the DA is happy that its threats to approach the courts for President Cyril Ramaphosa to fire Gigaba have also exerted the pressure for his resignation. “He had committed perjury in court which is lying to the court and the Public Protector had said so, so ultimately it cannot be that those who perpetuate a system of corruption continue to serve in public service, they must serve our people and therefore we welcome the decision for him to resign. Where people are corrupt it becomes a criminal matter, where there was perjury we have already opened a case against him and therefore this is not the last of it. And therefore he must face the full prosecution.” Joining other parties in welcoming the resignation, African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP)  Leader Kenneth Meshoe says Gigaba has failed to lead with integrity. “He has failed to lead with truth and integrity as we know that he lied. He promised the Oppenheimers that they can have their side of the airport. Then he denied, he retracted. Even when the courts said that he did make a promise. He did not admit that he made a promise. So he is not a man of truth. He is not a man of integrity. So we are delighted that finally he is gone.” Meanwhile National Freedom Party Chief Whip Nhlanhla Khubisa says Gigaba did the right thing to bow out of government with dignity, ” by pulling out on his own we believe that he is giving this government led by the President to try and unearth and uncover all the remnants of state capture and other things. We want to say he has acted with dignity by just pulling off from the government on his own.” The ANC says former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has acted in the spirit of the party’s call for all its cadres to restore the values and integrity of the party. Gigaba resigned this afternoon after having had discussions with President Cyril Ramaphosa. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe reiterated that Gigaba remains a disciplined cadre of the ANC , “Comrade Malusi’s decision to step aside is a sign of the increasing maturity of our democracy and leadership willing to put the country ahead of their own individual situations as indicated in his letter of resignation; this does not constitute an admission of guilt on his part but will allow him to deal with the current challenges. We commend Comrade Malusi for choosing the revolution over himself and to place the interests of the ANC and the country above his own. Comrade Malusi remains a disciplined cadre of the ANC currently serving in its NEC. ” Related video:  