A statement by Pravin Gordhan to the State Capture Commission which was later leaked is expected to dominate the Zondo Commission this week. Gordhan says he met the Guptas at government functions and at a cricket match. He was introduced to one of the Guptas by former President Jacob Zuma. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has already called on the Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane to investigate the Minister of Public Enterprises. Former Public Enterprises Minister, Barbara Hogan – fired by then President Jacob Zuma in 2010 will take the stand on Monday. She’s expected to shed light on the days leading to her removal as a minister in 2010. Her testimony is expected to reveal whether she faced any pressure to perform favours for the infamous Gupta family. Former ANC MP, Vytjie Mentor has testified that she was informed by the Guptas about the planned reshuffling by Zuma. She said the Guptas offered her Hogan’s position if she agreed to carry out their mandate. Hogan’s testimony will be followed by the much anticipated one of Pravin Gordhan on Thursday. Gordhan is expected to detail how he fought off invitations to visit the Gupta compound in Saxonwold. He has in the past denied meeting the Guptas officially. He says in the leaked statement that he only met the Guptas at government events and during a meeting with an Indian businessman. But pressure is now mounting on whether Gordhan shouldn’t follow Nhlanhla Nene’s example and step down. Dr Mazwe Majola, leadership expert says: “It’s exactly the same thing, the question is will Pravin resign, and will Pravin follow Nhlanhla Nene because Nhlanhla Nene showed them the way. Leadership is modelling, leadership is exemplary. If you are a leader you show other people how things are done. Accountability means a leader is willing to answer for his or her outcomes resulting from his choices behaviour, actions.” Dr Majola has commended the work done by the Zondo Commission even at this early stage. “If it was not for the state capture we would still be having people, there would not be so many things that would not be disclosed, things that would be revealed. Nhlanhla Nene would not have told what he said. I know that they have leaked the statement, but we would not have known that when someone says I have not met the Guptas finish and klaar, that’s what the public would know.” Meanwhile, the Zondo Commission has promised an investigation into the leaks of statements of witnesses who are yet to testify before the commission. WATCH BELOW: