Political analyst Ralph Mathekga says former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba’s resignation is significant. Mathekga says the former home affairs minister was under pressure in the past few weeks. In his resignation letter, Gigaba says he is stepping aside for the sake of the country and the African National Congress (ANC) – while also relieving the President of any undue pressure to fire him. Gigaba resigned one day before the deadline that was set by the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane for President Cyril Ramaphosa to take action against him for lying under oath. He also says he filed an application for judicial review of Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s recommendation on the Fireblade Aviation matter. Mathekga says Gigaba was a rising star in the ANC but adds that this could be overshadowed by some of his miscalculations and bad decision making. Click below to listen to Mathekga…. <a href="https://iono.fm/e/625303">Content hosted by iono.fm</a> In a statement, President Cyril Ramaphosa said he has accepted Gigaba’s resignation letter. In recent weeks, Gigaba has been in the news following the leaking of his sexual video on social media which he said was meant for his wife. Political analyst, Professor Mcebisi Ndletyana, says another reason that Gigaba is not yet off the hook, is that he could be implicated in State Capture investigations. “A lot has been said. There are facts about his own improper handling of the Fireblade incident and it could be that he is implicated in the State Capture problem. So it doesn’t matter what he says, the fact is we know that he has been involved in a number of improper things.” “So the only thing that counts for us is that he is gone, mainly because he didn’t do certain things correctly. He has to say something and simply saving face, so it doesn’t matter to us,” adds Ndletyana. President Ramaphosa has to fill Gigaba’s vacancy and that of Environmental Affairs following the passing of Edna Molewa. Click below for related videos…  