The African National Congress (ANC) has taken its Thuma Mina election campaign to the Mpumalanga province. Senior ANC members are visiting different parts of the province, over the weekend to interact with residents regarding service delivery issues. Some National Executive Committee (NEC) and National Working Committee (NWC) members have engaged with residents of Mkhuhlu, at a local sports field.  The ANC NEC and NWC members have visited Mkhuhlu in the Bushbuckridge Local Municipality. Led by Naledi Pandor and Senzo Mnchunu they proceeded to the local shopping complex to remind residents about ANC values. They assured the community that the ANC is in a rebuilding phase. The party leadership told the residents that the ANC needs support more than ever before. They pleaded with the voters to continue supporting the party. They also shared their views on the Bosasa issue, involving President Cyril Ramaphosa. NEC member, Naledi Pandor says Ramaphosa did a good thing by writing to the Speaker of Parliament admitting to an error he made during an oral reply to questions in Parliament. Pandor says the party believes in the President. “The president has done the right thing by writing immediately to the Speaker realising that an error has been made. This is what we want from leadership, when there is an error they must stand up and admit to it, so by writing to Speaker immediately I think the president has illustrated the leadership that he wants, leadership that recognizes that I have done wrong.” Residents have thanked the leadership for the visit. Twenty-year-old Lucky Lubisi will be voting for the first time next year. He says he is a proud supporter of ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa. “Cyril Ramaphosa, many decades ago played an important role in the history of South Africa that we as the future of South Africa got freedom. So we recognize the injustice of our past through Cyril Ramaphosa.” ANC Chief Whip, Jackson Mthembu, who was part of campaign team says he is confident that the party will do well in next year’s election, particularly in Mpumalanga. He commended the Ward 1 Councillor in Mkhuhlu for doing a good job. “He has done wonderful work in keeping with the spirit of Babu Mandela, in keeping with the spirit of Mam’ Sisulu and to answer your question not only in Mkhuhlu, but in the whole Mpumalanga we are confident that we are going to win the election hands down.” Similar activities are taking place in the four other regions of the province. The party will conclude its election campaign in the province on Sunday.    