President Cyril Ramaphosa‘s oral reply session was marred by chaos as the DA and the EFF clashed in the middle of the session. The chaos erupted during the question on Eskom’s R33 billion loan it took from the China Development Bank. Ramapahosa also had to answer a question on whether his son received half-a-million rand from Bosasa Security Company, which is doing business with government. The question and answer session which started with VBS looting went smoothly. DA leader, Mmusi Maimane, challenged the President to set the record straight on whether his son, Andile, had benefited from doing business with Bosasa. Andile Ramaphosa’s deal with Bosasa Maimane revealed evidence to show that Andile allegedly received half-a-million rand from Bosasa last year. “Here I hold a proof of payment that was transferred to say half a million rand need to be transferred into a Trust account called  EFG2 on the 18th of October  last year. This was allegedly put for your son Andile Ramaphosa. Following on to that Mr President I have a sworn affidavit from Peet Venter that he was asked by the CEO of Bosasa that he must make this transfer  for Andile Ramaphosa. Mr President we can’t have family members benefiting.” The President told Maimane that his son is running a clear and honest business as a financial consultant. He says Andile is providing such services to both national and international companies, including Bosasa Security company. “And he consults for a number of companies and one of those companies is Bosasa where he provides services on entrepreneurship and particularly on the procurement process and he advice both local and international companies. And this payment I can assure you Mr Maimane, I asked him at close range whether this was money that was obtained  illegally unlawfully and he said this was a service that was provided. And to this end he actually showed me a contract that he signed with Bosasa and the contract  also deals with issues of integrity, issues of anti corruption and all that. Now on this one I have made sure that I get the information as much as I can and he is running a clear and honest business as an advisory service.”  Malema on VBS However, Malema further challenged President Ramaphosa’s response and said the same should apply to the brother of EFF Chief Whip, Floyd Shivambu’s, brother Brian, who is implicated in the VBS saga. “I the  answer you gave is acceptable to your colleagues, then the same answer stands with Brian Shivambu, because it cannot be if it is your children with contracts, invoices and they can account for the work they have done is acceptable, but  when it comes to Brian Shivambu it is a different matter altogether.” As the President proceeded to answer question on the 33-billion rand Eskom loan, chaos erupted. The EFF and DA clashed in the House. This came after DA Chief Whip, John Steehuisen referred to the EFF as VBS looters. EFF leader, Julius Malema in response told Steenhuisen that he was accused of rape and referred to him as a  racist young man. Chaos erupted in parliament The tension between the two parties came after EFF MP Ndlozi objected to Steenhuisen rising on a point of order and speaking when he was not recognised by the House chairperson, Thoko Didiza. This after the President  Ramaphosa made remarks that Steenhuisen will take some time to assimilate his response on the Eskom loan properly and accused him of not listening properly to his previous responses. This is  what transpired. Further chaos erupted as Agang Parliamentary leader, Andries Tlouamma, entered the fray to defend Steenhuisen. And House chairperson Didiza’s hands were full as a scuffle ensued between EFF MP Nazeer Paulsen and Tlouamma.  Tlouama and Paulsen were later kicked out of the House. The President continued with the oral reply session. Didiza apologised to the President at the end of the oral reply session. “I think it is important as the presiding officer and on behalf of this house to apologise for what happened during the question session and also thank you  for having been patient and allow to continue with the question regardless of what  happened. And i am sure in the last question you  spoke to some of the issues here today and I would like to thank you for actually for having honoured us with the extension of time.” Didiza is expected to make a ruling on the remarks made by Malema and Steenhuisen when the House sits again. Meanwhile, Didiza also requested Chief Whips of political parties to address what transpired during the oral reply session when they meet during a Chief Whips forum. Watch video below:     