Findings, released by the Gauteng City-Region Observatory (GCRO) on Tuesday, have found that the quality of life among the provinces’ residents has improved since the previous 2015/16 survey. The Quality of Life survey (QoL) results were announced at the University of Johannesburg, the fifth conducted by the organisation since 2009. The social attitudes survey measures residents’ level of satisfaction across a number of characteristics of the Gauteng City Region. Close to 25 000 respondents from across the province were interviewed using a rigorous and inventive system of data collection which aimed to avoid convenience sampling and error. Of the total residents sampled, 44% are satisfied with provincial government, the highest satisfaction rating among the different spheres of government. Satisfaction with provincial government On a city level, Ekurhuleni rates above Johannesburg and Tshwane in improving access to services. Smaller municipalities such as Lesedi and Midvaal are also up since the previous survey while Emfuleni has “seen a significant decline in the area of refuse collection, and satisfaction,” according to the results. The QoL survey is the largest of its kind in sub-Saharan Africa. Of the most pressing concerns communities are facing, the chief one is that of crime, “Across Gauteng, respondents report that the three biggest problems in their communities are crime (32%), unemployment (18%), and drug and alcohol abuse (16%).” The latter was rated the biggest concern among colored respondents. Water, electricity for lighting and sanitation has remained largely the same since 2009, refuse collection is the one service that has substantially decreased from around 90% to 83%. Satisfaction with an index of 10 service areas When asked about how he intends to grow cooperation among the three metropolitan municipalities to drive economic growth, Premier of the Gauteng Province David Makhura said “On some issues (water, electricity) it has worked well, on others its hasn’t. Gauteng won’t work if the different spheres of government don’t work together.”  “In the face of extraordinary growth in Gauteng there is growth in supply of services,” says Dr Rob Moore, Research Director at the GCRO. He added that “data is giving assuring picture that services provision is being met in terms of water and electricity.” Despite results indicating an overall improvement in satisfaction, the quality of life remains the lowest for African respondents and is not catching up according to the survey. “Africans are the only population group with an average Quality of Life index score below the provincial average. Despite Africans seeing an improvement in their score since 2011, white respondents are seeing larger gains in measured quality of life, which means Africans are not catching up,” the report states. GCRO senior researcher Christina Culwick says that “race remains a key determiner of overall quality of life in Gauteng”.  Quality of Life score by population group