The African National Congress (ANC) says the cracking coalitions at the major metros in Port Elizabeth and Tshwane led by the Democratic Alliance (DA) were bound to collapse. Head of Campaigning, Fikile Mbalula says the current events afflicting key metros are not a result of the ANC’s inability to govern, but a result of failed coalitions. He says the nature of bullying within the DA will always come as a challenge for the party. Mbalula addressed the media in Johannesburg on Thursday, following the recent ousting of Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Mayor, Athol Trollip. The ANC has come out strongly against the DA for claiming the ANC was forming a coalition of corruption with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), to remove DA Mayors. Trollip is now the former Mayor of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, following a motion of confidence brought by the United Democratic Movement’s (UDM) Mongameli Bobabani, who subsequently became the mayor. As the events unfolded in Tshwane to unseat Mayor Solly Msimanga, the ANC says he deserves to be removed. Mbalula says they do not believe any coalition led by the DA will succeed. “In pursuit of the immediate stabilisation of the two Metros, Nelson Mandela Bay and Tshwane Metros – where these alliances have collapsed – the ANC has decided to work with parties that share its immediate aims that are committed to placing these municipalities on a path of recovering to resolve the immediate challenges.” Referring to the DA’s threats to challenge the removal of Athol Trollip as Nelson Mandela Bay in court, the ANC describes the process as being without reproach. Meanwhile, Political Analyst Professor Suzan Booysen says thus far coalitions governance have not shown any signs of sustainability. “No political party, no alliance at this stage can really guarantee service delivery at local government level. That really contributes to the fragility and the possibility that none of these coalitions that we see emerging now could or will be permanent especially around the EFF,  also building an electoral profile for 2019.” The ANC has also called on the DA to stop grand-standing during the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, currently underway in Johannesburg. The party was responding to the DA’s call for President Cyril Ramaphosa to testify during the commission, claiming that he was part of the former President Jacob Zuma’s administration which was deeply involved with State Capture. Click below for more on the story: 