South African troops deployed along the South Africa-Mozambique border are making progress this as the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) says cross border crimes have decreased. There are however still challenges, threatening the livelihoods of communities in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Manguzi, is a small rural town situated 15 kilometres from the Mozambican border. Jobs are scarce and so are basic services. Street traders line the roadside; it’s how many make a living. But rampant crime along the border has created serious problems. Smuggling of counterfeit goods, drugs and illegal weapons is the order of the day there and so is the theft of vehicles. The situation was so bad that security forces were beefed up. The Defence force, already having spent months on the ground, says the gangs operating there are well organised. Young children are being recruited as look-outs, in exchange for money and cell phones. Captain Sunnyboy Mahlangu of the SANDF says: “It’s different groupings, its people who spot the vehicles, they are called the spotters. There are those who cut the fence, they are the cutters and then those who guide the vehicles all these people from around here.” The military faces many challenges here. The area is vast with dense bushes making the terrain difficult to manoeuvre in. Captain Sifiso Nene of the SANDF says: “We catch some and we lose some because of the terrain and bushes and for the fact that these people know the area well. They grew up here herding cattle and playing on these plains. We are also challenged by the fact the distance of the houses is quite far so we cant tell who is a criminal and who we can trust.” When night falls, the risks are higher. Criminals are busiest at this time. As part of their modus operandi, they’ve come up with a system of signalling. Captain Sifiso Nene of the SANDF says: “They drive with the lights off. There is always a guide who is guiding the vehicle so that the driver will see where the vehicles are going. ” But all is not doom and gloom. The SANDF’s efforts are paying off. In the few months since they’ve been deployed, they saved the State more than R10 million. Col Merlin Albertyn of the SANDF says: “We deployed these boulders as part of an SANDF iniative to counter the vehicles to cross on a regular intervals. You will see boulders have been extremely successful in countering vehicles  crossing on regular intervals to the other side.” Locals say there has been a difference since the troops moved in. Joseph Tembe a community leader says: “It’s better now because government has tried to put some teams that are working close to the police and soldiers so people can report to those people  and those people communicate with the soldiers so that makes a difference.” The SANDF says they are working well with the Mozambican Defence force and hope their efforts will bring an end to these crimes.