A relative of the late co-author of the controversial book ‘The Lost Boys of Bird Island’, Mark Minnie has dispelled his apparent suicide saying that the family believe Minnie was assassinated. The controversial book, which was published last week, reveals a shocking expose of an official cover-up of an alleged paedophile ring involving former Minister of Defence Magnus Malan and three National Party cabinet ministers. The gun found lying next to author Minnie’s body is said to belong to his friend and former police colleague Brent Barnes. A suicide note was also found at the Theescombe small-holding where he was staying. But family members say Minnie told them days before he died that if anything happened to him they must know he was killed. Relative of Mark Minnie, Tersia Dodo says: “He mentioned to us all the time that his life was in danger and if anything did happen to him we must know that it was done to him not by himself.” Before his death, Minnie was approached by many people with more damning evidence which he planned to reveal in a follow-up book. Dodo believes more prominent individuals would have been named. She says he feared for his life telling friends and family he was being watched. “I knew about the book for many years and I knew what he had been through, it really played him that he had seen and been involved with the investigation surrounding the book.” “Mark was not a coward, Mark faced life head on. There is no ways that I or any of us believed that he would have opted out and that is why I agreed to do this interview to dispel any thoughts and rumours of suicide. He was not the type of man that was cowardly and that would do something like that.” The family also believes the suicide note was staged. “I have said this from the beginning, this supposed suicide note was either written under duress and I would like to see it before, I will believe it was written by Mark.” Police say if foul play is evident in the case, the docket will change to murder. Click below for a further interview with Tersia Dodo:  Click related video below: 