ANC Chairperson in the North West, Supra Mahumapelo, has cautioned the party’s highest decision body, the National Executive Committee that disbanding his Provincial Executive Committee may cost the party in the province. Mahumapelo confirmed that he is attending the ANC special sitting this Thursday to discuss his future and that of his executive. The party’s National Working Committee, led by President Cyril Ramaphosa, came to the province last week to consult with all branches regarding the state of the party. He was accompanied by General-Secretary Ace Magashule, Deputy President David Mabuza and National Chair Gwede Mantashe. At the Ruth Mompati region in Vryburg, the consultative meeting was forced to be cancelled after an unruly crowd disrupted proceedings. The visit comes as three of the four regions have failed to hold their conferences, and there are allegations of bogus branches. Mahumapelo says whatever decision the NEC takes over the future of his PEC, they will accept. He however, accuses some members of both National Working Committee and National Executive Committee, of having been working with the private business community to disband and remove him, saying this was a well-funded plan. Supra Mahumapelo says:”The truth is that, that campaign immediately started after the conference, we know their names. They were joined by some members of NWC. We have lists of some members of NWC, NEC, and some members of Parliament and Provincial Legislature who have been attending these meetings to destabilise the province.” ANC PEC member Mmoloki Cwaile, who was in July suspended for publicly disagreeing with the Committee, says given the state of the party structures, and failure by the party to preside over clean governance, disbandment is the solution. “There are many reasons for disbandment, we know that the ANC has no criteria to assess the functionality of the PEC or other structures. Even with its alliance is it in trouble. Clean governance – ANC is failing on them particularly in the province.” Mahumapelo has vowed to reveal the names of party national leaders behind those who allegedly concocted a plan to remove him. Meanwhile UNISA’s political analyst Professor Lesiba Tefo says if that happened this is a sign of a pushover that may come with casualties. “Personality cults are very much prevalent, and Supra Mahumapelo is no push-over. The ANC needs Supra in as much Supra needs the ANC. I suspect that the ANC recognises it is better to keep Mahumapelo in, than outside.” Alliance partners in the province have also made similar calls, after strained relations, including accusations of lack of consultations by the ruling party. Meanwhile, the decision with regards to the future of the ANC North West PEC, is expected by Thursday. Related video click below: 