Former President Jacob Zuma says the African National Congress (ANC) and the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) are one and the same thing, and that members of the two parties come from the same pot. Zuma was speaking at the celebrations to mark IFP leader iNkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi’s 90th birthday at Ulundi, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Meanwhile, Buthelezi said the IFP was formed as a front of the ANC to keep black people politically conscious during the time the ANC was banned. A day of celebrating the life of the veteran IFP leader, scores of people packed Ulundi stadium to wish Buthelezi well as he turns 90. The veteran leader, who was once a member of the ANCYL, has been at the helm of the IFP for 43 years. Speaking during Buthelezi’s birthday celebrations, Zuma said the biggest gift that ANC and IFP members could give iNkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi would be for members of the two parties to reconcile. “At a Brics meeting, President Ramaphosa said to Buthelezi he was a member of the ANCYL and we want him back, Buthelezi responded and said what you are saying is very serious, I’m old now and I don’t want to die without having this matter resolved.” “Even Nxamalala knows this issue and I also attested to that. I want IFP members as you celebrate your 90th birthday to know that we are one and belong together, that time has come.” INkosi Buthelezi re-iterated that his party was formed with the blessing of ANC leaders including the late OR Tambo, as a front to the ANC. According to Buthelezi this was to ensure that black people continued to be politically conscious after the banning of political parties. The veteran leader is not at peace with what he said is the ANC’s campaign to overshadow his role in the liberation struggle. “The IFP founding principles are based on the ideals of the ANC as propounded by the founding fathers. It was formed as a front of the ANC.” The IFP says iNkosi Buthelezi weathered storms during his entire political career and his contribution has been deliberately vilified. Party Spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa says: “His political journey has not been an easy one and the fact that he has a arrived at  90 years has been with the God’s grace and of course he has been vilified throughout his political career but even that being the case he has not given up in the work of the nation.” ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala also believes in the need for the two parties to reconcile. “Yes there were differences at some point with us as the ANC, but there was a period we believed that we cannot perpetually be stuck with differences. We needed to pass that era, reconcile and unite our people. ” “These are issues that still need to be discussed, the process of reconciliation still need to be spearheaded, we are also grateful for his contribution in the state.” King of amaZulu Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu hailed Buthelezi for his immense contribution in the development of the institution of traditional leaders. Click video below: 