President Cyril Ramaphosa has reassured South Africa and the Agricultural Sector that land expropriation without compensation will be done in a just manner and so there shouldn’t be fears. He says there is an urgent need for a clear and explicit policy around land reform in the country. He was addressing the African Farmers Association of South Africa (AFASA) Presidential Gala Dinner in Kempton Park, Johannesburg on Monday night. Ramaphosa has appealed to all black and white South Africans to work with government to make the land reform process a success for the country. He says the three day African Farmers Association of South Africa, conference comes at a crucial time where many seek to bring about confusion on how land reform will be implemented. He says consultations will take place concurrently with the debate happening in the country. “Our country’s land must be shared among those who want to work it and those who wish to work it must be given the support and the encouragement to be successful.” “This is also necessary to correct the past wrong doing, it is necessary to do this and give access to those amongst us who want to work the land – so that we can heal this festering wound of the past.” AFASA is an organisation of emerging commercial farmers. AFASA President, Doctor Vuyo Mahlati says as the debate on land expropriation without compensation continues in the country, emerging farmers will need a maximum support from government to start working the land. Mahlati says they are more than willing to work the land and produce food for the country.Minister of Agriculture Zenzeni Zokwana has committed that his department will carry out Ramaphosa’s orders to assist the aspirant farmers. He however has warned against the habits of stock-theft in the farming industry. “We need to make sure that stock-theft is not perpetuated, each farmer must double check the source of the cattle they buy and make sure it’s not stolen from another fellow farmer ,this will help in fighting this challenge.” Ramaphosa says injustices of the past should be tackled head on through the expropriation of land without compensation. Click video below: 