The Thabo Mbeki Foundation says  the outstanding African diplomat Kofi Annan dedicated his adult life to the service of all humanity. “The former Secretary General of the United States was only a month ago; a looking healthy Annan had joined the people of South Africa to celebrate the centenary of former President Nelson Mandela.” Flags will fly at half-mast for three days at UN headquarters in New York and its missions around the world after Annan’s passing. The former United Nations Chief died in Switzerland after a short illness on Saturday. He was 80. The Foundation says over the years Africans held Annan in high esteem. As a leader Anna continued to carry out many important international missions.   The FW De Klerk Foundation on the other hand says the former UN Chief played his role at the global body with distinction. Former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Judge Navi Pillay, says Annan was a true champion for people’s rights. Judge Pillay and Annan worked closely together on many human rights issues. She says she often sought advice from Annan while in office. “As a son of Africa he proved himself to be a leader of high integrity and morals and that he made a great contribution to the United Nations and the world. And i also agree with people who say that in his second term he was much more forth right and was able to take up issues and these are some of the challenges under which he asserted his role as the worlds exponent of people’s rights.”  Amnesty International’s Secretary General Kumi Naidoo says the world has lost a great leader with the passing of Annan. The South African rights campaigner says Annan’s dedication to social justice – especially at this time when the right wing and populist leaders are resurgent – will be sorely missed. Naidoo says he was privileged to work with Annan on climate change, poverty and gender equality. He’s sent his condolences to Annan’s family.    Russian President Vladimir Putin hailed his “wisdom and courage”, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel celebrated the “exceptional statesman in the service of the global community.” President Donald Trump had yet to comment, but the US ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley said Annan “worked tirelessly to unite us and never stopped fighting for the dignity of every person”. Former US president Barack Obama earlier said Annan “embodied the mission of the United Nations like few others”. “Kofi Annan was a truly great UN Secretary-General”, former US president Bill Clinton and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton said in a statement. 