United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa has welcomed hundreds of new party members from different political parties in KwaZulu-Natal. The new members, including Sipho Mbatha from the Economic Freedom Fighters, Boyse Gumede from the National Freedom Party and Siphamandla Gumede from the Inkatha Freedom Party were unveiled to the media in Durban. Holomisa has urged the new members to go back to their communities and work together with other parties to help better the lives of ordinary citizens. “As we receive our new members into the UDM, we say welcome to your new political home. Where you come from, make sure that you don’t create enemies. The parties you come from, those are our opponents, but not enemies. Most of you are coming from parties which represent the interests of the disadvantages communities. There it should be easy for us to work together with those parties where we find that our common interests are the same. “ The UDM has urged political parties to work together to come up with a strategy on land reform. Last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the ANC would move to amend Section 25 of the Constitution to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation. Parliament’s Constitutional Review Committee has concluded its hearings in all nine provinces to get citizens’ views on whether the constitution should be amended. The committee has until the end of September to report back to the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces on the public hearings. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, says, “On the question of land, not a single political party will have their own solution. So, therefore, we have to swallow our pride and converge under one roof to compare notes. The majority of South Africans are yearning for a piece of land. There is no way 52 million population of black people of South Africa could be denied to have access to land. As a matter of principle, this debate is long overdue but here, now, we are given an opportunity to find a solution.” Click below for more on the story: 