As the Democratic Alliance (DA) celebrates two years since it took over the Johannesburg, Tshwane and Nelson Mandela Bay Metros, it denies it has neglected poor communities. However, the residents of Dobsonville in Soweto say the number of children who have been injured and killed by speeding and intoxicated motorists have led them to believe that their needs are not a priority. “The myth that people are portraying is false that we are delivering to some communities and not others. R100 billion in the budget we tabled will be for poor communities, look at Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and you will see those communities are better off today since the DA  came in,” says DA leader Mmusi Maimane. The DA says it is rooting out corruption. It has reduced unemployment by 2% in Johannesburg and recruited an additional 1 500 Johannesburg Metro Police officers to make the streets safer. The party says it has made a difference, however some Dobsonville residents do not share the same sentiments. “Last year a child was hit by a car and the motorist ran away then after that we decided to come with a plan to put speed humps on our own because we asked municipality but all went in vain,” says resident Bheki Ntuli. Another resident Angelina Botha says; “We wrote to the municipality, council, police no answer even open community group, no answer. ” At least 10 children have been hit by cars and seriously injured or killed on the three streets the SABC went to . “The DA came, they asked us about the humps, they promised us but now they are nowhere to be found,” says resident Ntombi Moatsi. The Council says roads and speed humps are beyond its jurisdiction but the City has now allocated budgets to address these concerns “The R170 billion backlog is confirmed by Treasury and My Capex is only R8 billion so to address R170 billion in one year will not be possible. In terms of road infrastructure throughout the City you will see in our current budget 70% of our budget is going into the poor areas, issues of speed humps traffic lights not working,” says Executive Mayor Herman Mashaba. All that the residents of Dobsonville can do for now is put up tree trunks and rocks to slow down traffic and keep their children safe.    