The family of the apartheid era Defence Minister, Magnus Malan, has broken their silence. Family spokesperson Major General Gert Opperman refuted all claims made in a recently published book, “The Lost Boys of Bird Island.” The authors say Malan and two other National Party Ministers in PW Botha’s cabinet, sexually abused young boy. In an exclusive interview, Gert Opperman, who represents Magnus Malan’s family says they were never consulted about the contents in the book, “The Lost Boys of Bird Island”. The book reveals how Malan and two other prominent National Party Cabinet Ministers regularly abused young boys on an island just off the coast of Port Elizabeth. Opperman discredited all accusations of homosexuality and said Malan was a devout Christian. Malan died seven years ago. The family was completely shocked by the allegations, when it appeared in an Afrikaans newspaper. “They have never been warned before the publication. It came as a complete surprise to them. They found the allegations completely without base and extremely unfair,” says Opperman. He questioned the credibility of the anonymous victim. “For instance this most recent Mr X I found no element that can be corroborated in practice. In fact I found so many incredible things that is no evidence at all,” adds Opperman. The death of co-author Mark Minnie has also sparked speculation. On Monday, he was found with a single gunshot wound to his head, on a small holding in Theescome, near Port Elizabeth. “I think that is another aspect that should be investigated fully and that should be part of the bigger investigation as well. If such that people that have proof that they can submit to those investigation teams must do so,” Opperman said. Minnie’s family believes he was murdered. “Mark is not a coward. Mark faced life head on. There is no way that I and any of us believe that the would have opted out,” says Minnie’s Cousin, Terisia Dodo. The Minnie family has appointed expert forensic investigator Dr David Klatszow to investigate his death. If the victims come forward it can bring an end to 30 years of speculation, of who raped and possibly murdered many young children, most of them vulnerable and black. WATCH BELOW: 