The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and Democratic Alliance (DA) in North West have called for the immediate cancellation of the fringe benefits former premier, Supra Mahumapelo is still enjoying. Mahumapelo, who resigned in May, following allegations of corruption that led to violent protests in the North West, is still using a state vehicle and security personnel. Opposition parties in the province condemned and challenged the utilisation of resources by Mahumapelo, and many people have raised concerns on social media as well. They have called on premier Job Mokgoro to swiftly act on the matter. EFF leader in the province, Betty Diale says it got to their attention that Mahumapelo is still using the vehicle and protection that is being paid by the state. “We feel as the EFF that Supra must leave those things. He does not deserve to be protected. Under these circumstances we feel that they must be returned. Job Mokgoro must be decisive in that one and take especially the vehicle… if he needs security he must pay for his own.” The DA’s Joe McGluwa says his party has already written to the Public Protector to investigate the matter. “We cannot allow the situation that we have a former premier that is currently ruling from the grave. Supra is nothing but a disgrace to the people of the North West, and we are saying as the Democratic Alliance we will stop this gravy train.” In response, premier Job Mokgoro says the security assistance to Mahumapelo has been sanctioned by the Ministry of police. He says Mahumapelo can only utilise state security for a period not exceeding three months. With regards to the state vehicle, he has instructed the provincial Transport Department, to ensure that the vehicle is returned. “I have personally spoken to the Minister of Police as well as the former Premier, so there is nothing illegal as long as it is three months after termination. I had made arrangements that we should up raise him the legal situation. The directive that I gave is that, in terms of the law there has to be a change”. Premier Mokgoro promised that the matter will be appropriately addressed by next week.