Social Justice Activist Kumi Naidoo says poverty and corruption in Africa are things that Amnesty International should prioritise on the continent and across the world. Naidoo will assume the position of the Secretary General of the international organisation on Wednesday. Addressing the community of Chatsworth, south of Durban, where he grew up, Naidoo also highlighted climate change as a massive threat to the lives of people around the world. Born and raised in Chatsworth, south of Durban, it was a homecoming for the human rights activist and environmentalist, . The Chatsworth Youth Center was full to capacity with members of the community, academics and bikers who gathered to listen to the celebrated activist. Naidoo earned a reputation as an activist at an early age. He became involved in anti-apartheid activities when he was 15 years old, resulting in his expulsion from high school. He was also arrested several times and was charged for violating provisions against mass mobilisation, civil disobedience and for violating the state of emergency. This led him to having to go underground before finally deciding to live in exile in England. Despite his decorated political life, Naidoo is best known for his role as the former Executive Director of the international environmental group, Greenpeace. He has now been appointed as the human rights lobby group Secretary-general for Amnesty International, with branches in over 70 countries. In his address, he emphasised that the world is still facing a serious challenge of climate change. “I believe it needs a collective and everybody must be involved in the struggle against climate.We have a responsibility to see how we contribute as we will be doing it for the next coming generation.” He says corruption is cancer, especially in Africa, as it hinders the poor from benefiting from the resources of the country. “Africa is rich in resources, but few people benefit from those resources. Inequality among Africans widens each and every day. Therefore, as I am Secretary General of Amnesty International, we will make sure that we contribute in ensuring that Amnesty International’s voice is heard across the world.” He also called on the youth to be active on the issues that affect them. Referring to the current status of South Africa in terms policies, Naidoo says South Africa has a good constitution but the problem lies in the implementation of these policies. He also received an award by the Revolution Motorcycle Club for his contribution in the struggle against apartheid.  