Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has commended the Free State for its exceptional results on the second chance matric support programme. Motshekga met with thousands of current and former matriculants in Thabong, Welkom, to encourage them to take advantage of the support programme. The department intends to give learners who did not perform well in matric, an opportunity to improve their Grade 12 results through the programme. The second chance support matric programme which has been running for two years, aims to assist those who have previously not met the requirements of the National Senior Certificate. Minister Motshekga says the Free State has so far mastered the system making it to be the leading province in the country. Motshekga has encouraged former and current Grade 12 learners to study hard to make sure that the province maintains the first position in the national matric results that it achieved in 2017. “They’ve really perfected the programme of getting and preparing kids to revive and write their matric. But what they could possibly do is to link it up to skills so that we also add on subjects like your ICT so that they can have some skills.” Some learners who are in the second chance matric support programme have big dreams. “Second chance means a lot to me because last year I didn’t do well in my matric. So, I went to second chance programme which helped me a lot. I want to see myself at the UFS next year because it’s what I’ve been wanting for,” says one learner. Free State Provincial Education MEC Tate Makgoe says the focus will be on computer skills. “I think the biggest challenge is to make the environment more exciting. What we are thinking about is considering skills programmes where we could actually use computers. So, instead of doing nothing after two subjects they can do coding or IT or any other skill. We’ve got 5 centres in the province and I think it will actually add a lot of value.” Minister Motshekga will also visit other provinces to assess the state of the programme.   