Lesotho’s first National Leadership Forum took place on Thursday. It hopes to address the country’s recent political instability. The Southern African Development Community (SADC) regional body has intervened and South Africa was tasked with assisting the Mountain Kingdom to create stability. On Thursday Lesotho’s Prime Minister Tom Tabane made a frank admission that politicians have wronged the nation. SADC recently appointed retired justice Dikgang Moseneke to lead its Lesotho interventions and he’s making headway. “The purpose is confidence building. We ask Basotho to assure each other, leaders that they are comfortable in each other’s company and they are comfortable to interact. Dialogue is best when you talk to somebody you differ with, not those that you agree with, in order to persuade those you differ with to find a common cause with yourself. Otherwise dialogue is useless when you talk with those you agree with,” says SADC Envoy to Lesotho Moseneke. “As the chairperson of SADC, Namibia pledges her support and commitment to work closely with the government and the people of the kingdom of Lesotho and all stakeholders in the reform process. To ensure that a conducive environment is created for the full implementation of SADC decisions as outlined in the roadmap,” says Veendapi Kamupingene representing SADC Chairperson. Stakeholders attending the crucial talks have insisted that all issues that are likely to affect the talks must be cleared. “For this process to take route, Lesotho must remove several impediments, that is all exiled opposition leadership must be allowed back in the country unconditionally, together with all Basotho that sought refuge outside the country. We should cease to keep people in jail without charging them as is the case now with the former commander of lDF, lieutenant general Tlali Kamoli who has been detained, denied bail and now is about to take a period of a year in jail. That is a black spot in our democracy,” says Mathibeli Mokhothu of Lesotho opposition. “I will talk as blunt as I used to in my days as a shepherd boy. As leaders in politics, I swear we have wronged each other and have wronged this nation of Basotho. We took part in planting divisions and hatred that prevails in this nation of Moshoeshoe,” says Lesotho Prime Minister Thabane. “The output of this dialogue, will elevate us to the long awaited multi-stakeholder dialogue. I wish you a happy and fruitful deliberation period for the common goal which I would like to term ‘the Lesotho we want.” WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: 