Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi says the police will make sure all culprits involved in the abduction of children are arrested. Mkongi, together with senior police officers and detectives visited the scene along the N2 in Nyanga in Cape Town where the body of a two year child, Oyingcwele Zokufa, was found in a shallow grave in bushes. Mkongi also visited the family at Hazeldene in Phillipi. Mkongi has warned that police will not rest until all culprits involved in the abduction of children in different areas in the Cape Pensinsula are prosecuted and jailed for a long time. Together with senior police officers and detectives he visited the scene where the body of Oyingcwele was found buried in a shallow grave among bushes. A 32 year-old suspect has been arrested in connection with the incident. Mkongi also visited the family at Hazeldene in Phillipi. The highly emotional Mkongi struggled to hold back the tears. “I’m very hurt, emotional is an under statement, because I have seen the grave,  I ask the question which implements this guy have used to put the body there, he didn’t have respect for this young child so I’m very angry, fortunately we have managed to get the body and to get the criminal, we going to take this matter up and deal with it .” The family of has asked the police to keep the suspect in jail for life. “Now that he is in the hands of the law, please keep him in jail general , because we are hurt as the family, the whole country is hurt, because they commit these crimes and after ten days they are back on the streets how will we feel as the family, please keep him in jail, said the family spokesperson, Mcedisi Mgidlana. Deputy police commissioner in the Western Cape, Mpumelelo Manci, has called for combined forces in the fight against the abduction and killing of children. Manci has appealed to communities to try and report missing children to the police immediately. He says a child is everybody’s responsibility. “Your child is my child that is the spirit that should prevail in the community, in this case the suspect has already been arrested. In the Kraaifontein case the investigation will go on and that person will be arrested, we call on community members , if you see a child straying report to the police, our motto is to get him or her back alive.” The suspect in this case is expected to appear in court soon. On Thursday, the body of a nine year old girl was found near Kraaifontein, the family reported her missing after she never reached home after school. No arrests have been made yet in connection with the incident.