The memorial service of former policeman and co-author of the “Lost Boys of Bird Island”, Mark Minnie, took place in Port Elizabeth on Friday. It’s alleged he committed suicide last week at his friend’s smallholding in Theescombe, just days after the book was published. The book implicates three former National Party ministers in an alleged paedophile ring in the 80s. Minnie was cremated during a private ceremony earlier this week. Not everyone believes it was suicide. It was an intimate and emotional gathering of family and friends from far and wide. Minnie was remembered fondly. “Somewhere there has to be red long sleeve shirt and black trousers that he wore. My memory of his was that no matter time of the day, he would come and wake me and say sis get up, come and iron my trousers and shirt, I have a hot date! I would get up. I have ironed that red shirt and trousers so many times, and I would say to him you are ready for goodness sake, how can you wear a red shirt and he would say I am so sexy and do a shuffle,” says his sister, Vanessa Tagg. Questions are being raised about how he allegedly died. “As a family it’s difficult and many of us don’t believe it was a suicide attempt.  Obviously knowing him and the way he felt about that but it’s an on-going investigation I don’t want to say too much about that,” says his step-brother Istvan Revsz. Co-author of the controversial book “The Lost Boys of Bird Island” Chris Steyn attended the memorial. “I wish Mark could have been here to know that his wish for a proper investigation has come true. All Mark ever wanted was a proper investigation of allegations and hopefully justice for the victims. The human rights foundation has launched an independent investigation not just into Mark’s circumstances surrounding his death but into the allegations contained in the book.” The family appointed renowned independent forensic investigator, Dr David Klatzow is to investigate Minnie’s death. It’s believed uncovered more evidence and was planning to reveal all in a follow up book. WATCH BELOW: 