The community of Sigedlane area in Kranskop in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands says government must make sure that a local farm owner, Hans Gantharm, leaves the farm with immediate effect as he is abusing and persecuting farm dwellers. According to the community, the farm owner vandalised a number of graves last week, which angered the community. The community has blockaded the R74, demanding the immediate arrest of Gantharm. The Sigedlane area is about ten kilometres from Kranskop and the land is mainly suitable for growing mielies. The land contains a number of graves, but all of them have been vandalised allegedly by the farm owner, Hans Gantharm. The community has blockaded the R74 in protest. One of the farm dwellers, Ncamisile Buthelezi, says she started working on the farm when she was seven years old. She says all her children and grandchildren and family members were buried on the farm, but now their graves have been vandalised – allegedly by the farm owner. “I was born here on the farm and I did not get an opportunity to go to school as I was working for this farm owner. I was eight when I was working here. After that he destroyed my homestead and I was forced to get an alternative accommodation for two years. If I see the graves of our families in this status, I feel bad. He touched their spirits.” Another farm dweller, Bhodlani Mthembu says, “The pain I am feeling is unbearable. This farmer must leave us in peace. Even himself is not safe as he has done terrible things to us.” KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development – Themba Mthembu – says he will convene an urgent meeting with the Human Rights Commission and other role players to discuss the alleged abuse of farm dwellers. “It is quite regrettable that at this time twenty four years after democracy, we still hears such situation and some of them read with them in the history. That is why we are saying we are going to bring human rights commission as we are of strong believe that they have been human rights violation of human rights in that area.” Local inkosi Makhosonke Sithole says the government must speed up the process of land restitution as part of the solution. “This land must be returned to the rightful owners so that people will be able to support themselves and leave in peace. As we speak some build their houses next to the river, which is dangerous.” Local councillor Mbangiseni Yengwa agrees with Inkosi Sithole, but adds that the farmer must leave the area. “The govt must do something about this man because it is as if he unable to stay with the black people in particular. He must be the first one to be considered of taking the land away from from him.” A meeting of all relevant stakeholders is expected to take place next week. The farm owner was in a meeting and could not be reached for comment. 