Thousands of mourners attended a state funeral in the Italian city of Genoa to bid a solemn farewell to victims of a bridge collapse that has sparked nationwide anger, while rescuers pulled more bodies from the rubble. Large crowds packed inside an exhibition hall turned into a makeshift chapel where coffins adorned with flowers and photographs were lined up, although the families of some victims shunned the state event. “I lost a friend but I came for all the victims,” local resident Nunzio Angone told AFP. Italian President Sergio Mattarella and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte presided over the hour-long Catholic service, which coincided with a national day of mourning for Tuesday’s disaster. A visibly shaken Mattarella spoke of an “unacceptable tragedy”. The death toll now stands at 40 including several children after the discovery Saturday of the body of a labourer in his 30s in the rubble and the death of another man in hospital, officials said. Local media reported that the bodies of three family members, including a nine-year-old girl had also been found inside a car under debris. At the ceremony, there was applause as a priest read out the names of the dead. “The Morandi bridge collapse has pierced the heart of Genoa. The pain is deep,” Archbishop Angelo Bagnasco said. Solemn chants of “Allahu akbar” (God is greatest) then rang out as an imam led prayers for two Muslim victims. His presence was particularly poignant in a staunchly Catholic country, where the far-right is now in power and which has seen a rise in attacks on foreigners. The populist government has blamed Autostrade per l’Italia, the operator of the viaduct, for the collapse and wants to strip the company of its lucrative contracts. Autostrade chief executive Giovanni Castellucci said at a press conference that $570 million will be available from Monday to help Genoa and to rebuild the bridge while funds would be set up to help victims. The government has accused the infrastructure giant of failing to invest in sufficient maintenance. Interior Minister Matteo Salvini had demanded that the company offer up to 500 million euros to help families and local government deal with the aftermath of the disaster. The government was set to hold an emergency meeting in Genoa on the disaster later Saturday. “Everyone who has come here in recent years has gone over that bridge. I have travelled along that bridge many times too, also recently,” Mattarella said, vowing to carry out a “rigorous investigation” into the accident.