The official Women’s Day programme is currently under way at the Mbekweni Youth Centre in Paarl, Western Cape. President Cyril Ramaphosa has just arrived together with Minister of Women Bathabile Dlamini. President Ramaphosa will deliver a keynote address…   The hall at the Mbekweni hall is nearly filled to capacity and more people are filling seats in the overflow area. Today’s celebration of Women’s Day is also bringing homage to ANC stalwart Albertina Sisulu, who would’ve turned 100 this year. “It is important to celebrate Women’s Day” African National Congress’ Dorothy Nyembe Branch Ward 99 Secretary Nomonde Ramosweu says it is important to celebrate Women’s Day because freedom did not come free. “It is our history and our children must know that freedom did not come free. They are free today to go to any school they want. Everything they want to do they are free. Those years ago we were not free.” Ramosweu says South African women need to be empowered. “Government needs to empower women and ensure that women and children are not abused.” Ida Platjies, who has been working at a farm in Somerset for thirty years, calls for the government to redistribute land. “We are suffering and our children are suffering. I am 58 years old and I have been working on this farm for thirty years. We need to own land. We have been working on land that we do not own.” President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to deliver the main speech of the day. The event is a commemoration of the 1956 Women’s march to Unions Buildings against pass laws. Makhura leads march to Union Building In Gauteng premier David Makhura will be leading a march to the Union Building where women will converge at the Lilian Ngoyi Square. From there they will march for 2km to retrace the steps of the 1956 women’s march to the seat of government. SABC News Reporter Sipho Stuurman…   In Limpopo, security is tight in and around Tibane stadium outside Polokwane, where the provincial Women’s Day event is being held. People have braved the cold and windy condition to listen to attend the event. Some have dressed in ANC colours of green, gold and black. Premier Stan Mathabatha is expected to address the rally.  