The South African legal team, assisting Zimbabwe’s opposition MDC Alliance with its court challenge to overturn the results of last month’s presidential poll, is still waiting for a work permit. The opposition party has asked Advocates Tembeka Ngcukaitobi and Dali Mpofu to form part of their legal team. The permit is a prerequisite for any professional to work in the country. The Zimbabwean Justice Minister is insisting they must have a permit to work in the country legally if they want to be part of the MDC legal team. The recently concluded Zimbabwe elections are still making headlines.  Now the rivalry between the two parties ZANU-PF and the MDC Alliance is playing itself out in court. The opposition led by Nelson Chamisa is challenging both the parliamentary and the presidential election results. In its argument, the MDC says the July 30 poll was rigged and was not free and fair. They claim to have figures supporting their petition that the MDC Alliance’s Nelson Chamisa was the winner of the poll. They also alleged that results from 18 polling stations are not accounted for. While the matter is now before the courts, Nelson Chamisa is also calling on the regional body SADC to intervene. SADC has called on all parties to observe the legal process that is currently under way. In its reply, ZANU- PF is arguing against the MDC petition, saying the court bid is a waste of time. The party’s secretary of legal affairs, Paul Manganwa says the MDC’s arguments will not stand up in court. Two of South Africa’s top legal minds, Advocates Tembeka Ngcukaitobi and Dali Mpofu, are still waiting for their work permits. The Zimbabwean Justice Minister is insisting they must have a permit to work in the country legally if they want to be part of the MDC legal team. Zimbabweans are hoping that the matter will be resolved this week. Media and political analyst, Alexander Rusero, says the election challenge shows the maturity of Zimbabwe’s democracy. The Zimbabwe state broadcaster has been granted permission to broadcast the hearing live on Wednesday. Meanwhile, both the MDC Alliance and ZANU-PF are confident they will win their case. Ndundu Sithole  