The United Nations Secretary General has appealed directly to the Security Council for help in urging the authorities of Myanmar to cooperate with the global organisation and allow its agencies unimpeded access to the country. Antonio Guterres who visited the region in June was addressing Council on the one-year anniversary of the start of the refugee emergency that would see over 700 000 Rohingya Muslims flee across the border into Bangladesh, unable to return home. An independent UN panel on Monday issued a scathing report accusing Myanmar’s military of crimes against humanity, charging that this was done with genocidal intent. The UN Chief witnessed the plight of Rohingya refugees first hand. Hearing their stories of horrendous persecution and suffering. Guterres wants the Security Council to do more, “It is clear that conditions are not yet met for the safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees to their places of origin or choice.  I ask members of the Security Council to join me in urging the Myanmar authorities to cooperate with the United Nations, and to ensure immediate, unimpeded and effective access for its agencies and partners.  We must also continue to press for the release of journalists who have been arrested for reporting on this human tragedy.” Myanmar authorities signed a memorandum of understanding with the UN in June that established a framework for cooperation to create conditions for the voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable repatriation of refugees from Bangladesh to Rakhine State. The UN also points out that Rohingya, who remained in Rakhine, continues to face marginalization and discrimination. “Very strong concerns have been expressed by the UN Independent Fact Finding Mission on Myanmar appointed by the Human Rights Council. Its report, issued yesterday, found ‘patterns of gross human rights violations and abuses’ committed by the security forces, which it said undoubtedly amount to the gravest crimes under international law.I believe this report’s findings and recommendations deserve serious consideration by all relevant United Nations bodies,” says Guterres. Oscar-winning Australian actress and UN High Commission for Refugees Goodwill Ambassador Cate Blanchett visited refugees in Bangladesh last March. “Refugees move back home when it is safe and secure to do so. The Rohingya cannot return to the very conditions they were forced to flee. They cannot settle for half solutions. They must know where they belong, a clear pathway to full citizenship is essential, this is not a luxury, this is not a privilege, this is a basic right that all of us here enjoy, a right that the Rohingya do not have,” says Blanchett. The UN fact-finding report has urged the Council to refer Myanmar to the International Criminal Court or set up an ad hoc tribunal to try senior military leaders accused of crimes against humanity including murder, rape and torture. The UK Minister of State for the Commonwealth & UN Lord Tariq Ahmad joined other western nations in calling for accountability. “Accountability remains an important priority, we need to see that those as we saw with the recent report – although it was a summary reports, I’m looking forward to being in Geneva when the detailed report is presented to the Human Rights Council, we must make sure that those who have perpetrated crimes are brought to justice, it is incumbent on all of us to ensure we deliver that justice for the victims of these crimes, “says Ahmad. Russia called for a balanced and non-confrontational approach to the question of the Rohingya while China urged the resolution of the crisis through bilateral channels. 