Fast food chain KFC has fired a manager at one of its branches in Somerset West for alleged racism. This comes after employees complained to their union, the Democratised Logistics and Allied Workers’ Union, Detawu. The workers say the unnamed manager repeatedly referred to them as a “bunch of monkeys”. KFC Africa’s Operations Director Mmenyana Ranku says the manager has been on suspension since July, while investigations have been underway. “We strongly believe that such behaviour as well as acts of non-inclusion and discrimination have no place in our society and our business. We will always move swiftly and take strong action against any such acts. Furthermore, we comply with the SA Labour Law legislation to ensure that our team members are always treated fairly and with respect at every level.” The union representing KFC workers at the Somerset West branch in the Western Cape says it welcomes with mixed feelings the dismissal of an alleged racist manager at the chicken outlet. The Detawu says KFC was dragging its feet in investigating the allegations which were reported in March. Detawu Secretary Brightness Matwa says KFC only started with its investigations after exposure in the media. “They only succumbed to pressure that was put to them by the media. So, in essence, they could not be praised for doing that because they did all the cover-ups to cover up that racial conduct of their manager. This manager has actually been let off the hook for a long time. She has been repeatedly calling the employees monkeys and all derogatory terms.” On Thursday, a small group of South African Communist Party (SACP) members protested in front of a Mugg and Bean restaurant at the Waterstone Village Mall in Somerset West. The group wanted to raise awareness around racism after an employee at the restaurant was allegedly fired because of the colour of his skin. The restaurant’s owner, Leon Mouton reportedly maintains that Andile Boso was dismissed as part of an “operational retrenchment”. The restaurant was at the time closed and a notice of apology placed on the door.