Two people have died in separate crashes in the Western Cape since the start of the Easter Weekend. Provincial Traffic Chief, Kenny Africa, says a man was knocked over by a car after stopping on the side of the road. Earlier Friday morning, a motorcyclist died in a crash on the R-304 outside Stellenbosch. Africa says there was another vehicle involved in that crash but the driver fled the scene. The traffic at the Musina Beit bridge border post in Limpopo has started to increase. Vehicles including trucks crossing the border into Zimbabwe have formed a queue of about one kilometre. Department spokesperson Matome Tauyatsoala says, “The traffic flow overnight particularly on the N1 was stable and managed properly by our traffic officials the accident that we had so far is the quantum that was traveling in a high speed and lost control with a trailer one passenger died on the spot the driver of a sedan lost control as well and died on the spot.” A woman and a child have also died after the vehicle they were travelling in rolled down the Houwhoek Pass on the N2 near Grabouw in the Western Cape. Two other passengers were seriously injured in the incident. This brings the total fatalities for the start of the Easter Weekend to four. Provincial Traffic Chief, Kenny Africa says, “A driver with his Toyota Avanza lost control over his vehicle. The vehicle went down the mountain pass and in this accident a woman and a child lost their lives. There was also two other people seriously injured.” Earlier, 14 people were reported to have been killed in a crash involving a minibus on the R33 near Greytown on the KwaZulu-Natal midlands Thursday night. It is believed that the vehicle that was transporting passengers from the town, experienced brake failure, lost control and overturned. Three other passengers were seriously injured. Meanwhile, Police are investigating one count of culpable homicide after a person died and two others sustained injuries in a head-on collision involving two light motor vehicles between Greytown and Stanger in KwaZulu Natal. RTI spokesperson Zinhle Mngomezulu says, “One person died and two others we injured following a head on collision between two light motor vehicles on the R74 Kranskop . The cause of an accident is unknown at this stage. One count of culpable homicide is being investigated the injured were taken to Greytown hospital. We urge motorists to drive cautiously not because we are in this period but throughout the year.” Click below to watch videos:  About SABC View all posts by SABC