A group of five aspiring scientists from SJ van der Merwe High School at Lebowakgomo in Limpopo have been selected to participate in a school science program at the United States of America. The learners were selected after they took position one during a debate administered by the South African Agency for Science and Technology Advancement. The learners debated and researched a proposal focused on a branch of science known as Nano-Technology. Grade 12 learner, Morakoane Madiba is only 18, yet she and four other female pupils in Lebowakgomo are already making strides as future scientists. The group of five learners submitted a research proposal looking into the science known as Nano-technology. This branch of science focuses on the manipulation of small matter for the benefit of various fields such as medicine and space technology. The group from the school went through a series of competitions where they debated the importance of Nano-technology in medicine, eventually attaining first position. Sixteen year old Kabelo Maifadi says the smaller particles in this discipline of science can turn around recovery time in medicine. “Nano-technology improves your lives; it goes straight out. Yes the process is complicated but then once you get the results as an individual, as a person you just get a small portion of what’s going to help you for a lifetime. Nano-medicine it goes directly to the affected area it heals you instantly, we are talking about small sizes that make a big impact in technologies,” says Maifadi. In America, they will undergo a tour of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) as well as a visit to the University of West Virginia. Seventeen year old Mahlodi Lekoana says the project focuses on ways to help advance different technologies. “It focuses on the advancements of technologies and science in South Africa, so whenever there is a science or technology advancement in South Africa, the SASTA brings it as a topic for young people to develop their minds and to get them ready for what is happening in South Africa, I am very much excited, I have been waiting for this trip for a long time.” At just sixteen and eighteen years of age, Tshegofatsho Motlatla and her fellow aspiring scientist, Itumeleng Katjedi believe investment in key scientific branches, will accelerate the development of the country. School principal Sophie Matlapu says this is an important achievement for not only the school but the area of Lebowakgomo as well. “This exposure it is covering the girls. All the learners who were participating, the ones who won, are all five girls within the school, so we are very excited because the impact is not only going to be seen here only in Lebowakgomo or in Limpopo province but in the country at large.” The five learners, including their teacher Onnica Lekgothoane, are leaving the country for the US this coming weekend and will spend close to ten days in that country.