Ten-year-old Miguel Louw, whose abduction drew the attention of the public, has finally been laid to rest. His funeral service was held at Saint Ann’s Catholic church in Sydenham, Durban. Louw disappeared in July and is body was discovered in abandoned bushes in Phoenix north of Durban, earlier this month. There was a sombre mood as scores of people gathered in Durban to bid farewell to the Grade 4 learner. Some mourners were dressed in white while others wore white t-shirts bearing the boy’s face. The church was packed to capacity.   Louw’s kidnapping prompted a social media campaign in which his images were circulated with the hope that he would be found alive. Louw was last seen when he left school in the company of a man who bought him a meal from a local food outlet. 43-year-old Mohammed Ebrahim has been arrested for his kidnapping. The family says his death has united the family and the community. The boy’s aunt, Shireen Kell, described Miguel as humble and loving. “I can’t say I’ve seen him yell, angry or even fighting, he was just a wonderful child. We could never have known that Miguel could bring so many people together, so many communities together, a little boy Miguel Louw you will always be remembered in our hearts.” Louw’s alleged kidnapper is believed to be known to his family. The boy’s family has thanked the public for their support. His uncle Noel Louw spoke to SABC News before funeral proceedings began. “We are so happy although it’s a sad occasion that eventually the family can find closure on this issue. A lot of times children go missing and families do not know where they end up, where they go. They never ever see them again but we’re grateful to God that today we can be here just getting closure and thank you to the community thank you to the media thank you to everyone who has put in this time to assist us we’re really grateful thank you.” On Friday, Police Minister Bheki Cele visited the family and said that the boy’s alleged kidnapper would also be charged with murder. WATCH RELATED VIDEO BELOW: