Civil society movement, Freedom Under Law, says it feels vindicated by Thursday’s Constitutional Court judgment. The court ordered former Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini to personally pay 20% of legal costs of the court application by Black Sash and Freedom Under Law regarding the South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) debacle. Dlamini could also be prosecuted for lying under oath about her role in the matter. The court will also refer Dlamini to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) for possible prosecution over suspicions that she lied under oath in her submissions to the court, as well as during an inquiry headed by Retired Judge president Bernard Ngoepe. “Whilst we’re elated, I think it’s vindication for accountability,” says Freedom Under Law’s Chief Executive Officer Nicole Fritz. Civil Society Movement Black Sash says it hopes Thursday’s Constitutional Court judgment will put a stop to public office bearers. Black Sash‘s Thandiwe Zulu says the ruling is a victory for accountability. “This court judgment sets a precedent for any and every department where power is being misused; where upholding the principles in terms of upholding the Constitution are not taken into consideration in the manner that they should be. So, the judgment and what has come out will actually serve as a deterrent and I’m happy that we spearheaded that process; not just for grant beneficiaries, but for every other citizen in the country.”   The IFP is calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to fire former Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini from his cabinet. The party’s spokesperson on Social Development Liezel Van Der Merwe says Dlamini is not fit to serve the country after this verdict. She also says the judgement is an indictment to Parliament for failing to hold Dlamini to account. “But more importantly I think the question now arises what is President Cyril Ramaphosa is going to do with minister that the court said lied under oath, misled the court. She’s done so on numerous occasions in parliament around Sassa debacle. So I think we are happy she must act in haste to pay the money, but also we would like to know from Ramaphosa what he will be doing against a minister currently occupying a position in his Cabinet.” 