The United Kingdom has underlined its commitment to innovative partnerships and technology transfer with South Africa as well as the rest of Africa in the defence sector. This builds on Prime Minister Theresa May’s August visit to South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria during which she announced a new partnership with the continent based on mutual benefits and shared prosperity and security.  This was the first visit by a British prime minister since 2013. Speaking at the Africa Aerospace and Defence (AAD) expo in Pretoria, Air Vice Marshal Nigel Maddox said AAD was appropriate to build on May’s successful visit and emphasized the importance of partnerships, collaboration and the transfer of technical information. He said it was important that SA and the UK worked together and shared the lessons learned in security in areas such as border security, maritime and cyber security. He noted that these were areas for future co-operation. He said: “Pooling resources, I think we’re unstoppable. It is a winning team and I think that’s what we’re looking for in the future”. High Commissioner Nigel Casey, stressed that the nature of the UK’s defence relationship with SA, was a genuine partnership – not one of just buyer and seller – as SA was an advanced defence manufacturer itself. Casey noted that several of the companies exhibiting at the show were already working as partners with established SA companies and often supplying niche capabilities to products made by local companies either for the South African National Defence Force or for export to third countries. He said the products were not only for the military, but also included items to enhance civilian security such as scanners at airports and bomb-proofing equipment.  He said this all helps to create an environment in the country and region which is conducive to development. He said they were also trying to develop a broader set of suppliers, including bringing young black-owned enterprises into the supply chain. In his opening speech, President Cyril Ramaphosa, outlined the government’s commitment to supporting the local defence industry to become export driven on the back of international investment.  He also stressed the importance of opening the industry up for participation by small and medium black enterprises through the Defence Sector Charter and for it to become an incubator of scarce skills in science, technology and engineering.  Earlier, Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula pointed out that the 10th edition of AAD comes at a time when the country’s defence industry is at critical cross-roads.  The challenges include a declining defence budget, increased competition resulting in reduced market access, lack of comprehensive transformation in the sector as well as financial headwinds facing the state arms manufacturer, Denel. To assist South African companies, Casey indicated that the issue of export finance also formed part of the prime minister’s visit.  This was particularly for larger procurements to provide an alternative longer-term financing option. The UK Ministry of Defence has also developed a specialist portal which enables SA companies to see what contracts are on offer from the UK military and be able to bid on them.  www.contracts.mod.uk Adam Thomas of the UK Department for International Trade Defence and Security Organization, said that in the past two years they had seen about 5 or 6 SA companies bidding to supply and as a result of this AAD they would like to double that. South Africa is one of the UK’s largest trading partners in Africa.