President Cyril Ramaphosa launched a scathing attack against those plotting to weaken the African National Congress (ANC). He says any attack on the ruling party has direct effects on citizens. Ramaphosa was speaking at Cosatu’s 13th National Congress in Midrand. His comments come in the wake of media reports that senior ANC members including Secretary -General Ace Magashule recently held a secret meeting with former President Jacob Zuma, where a plot to oust Ramaphosa was allegedly discussed. Receiving a resounding welcome from the more than 2000 delegates attending the 13th Cosatu congress underway in Midrand, Ramaphosa did not mince his words and condemned any acts that seek to weaken the ANC and its alliance partners. Ramaphosa says ANC members should focus their energy towards improving lives of ordinary people. He told delegates that, time to unite the alliance is now and that will subsequently unite all South Africans. “We should not spend time on counter-revolutionary machinations where, either in dark corners  or wherever, we come up with machinations of weakening the ANC. That must come to an end. If there is going to be any plot, it must be a plot to defeat poverty and if we are going to plan, let us plan the growth of our economy; let us invest our energies in transforming the economy of our country than waste time in playing marbles with the hopes of our people.” As the 2019 general elections are fast approaching, the president has challenged Cosatu to make sure that it is in the forefront during campaigns and mobilise workers to vote for unity and prosperity of the country. “We are going to a war of all wars, and then we start fighting amongst ourselves and we take guns and start shooting at each other, what type of an army are we? A united army is an army that will go to war united. We must go to war united as one army. So comrades, and this is a call for unity and (I) would like to say those that get into actions that disunite our people must be exposed. And then you would ask yourself, those who divide the ANC, ‘what agenda are they serving?'” The Cosatu Congress was initially delayed by members of the South African Municipal Workers’ Union Samwu who protested outside the venue. Opening the congress, Cosatu President Sdumo Dlamini acknowledged the ANC’s delegation led by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa has dismissed claims that government plans to retrench 30 000 workers. He slammed reports that government intended to let go of thousands of workers. Click below for more on the story: 