South Africa is fully committed to rooting out sexual abuse by United Nations (UN) peacekeepers, and takes such allegations in a serious light. That was the message delivered by Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula during a high level meeting on peacekeeping on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York. This comes as SABC News exclusively reported last week that the Secretary General had received a recommendation from his Department of Peacekeeping operations (DPKO)  that he expel hundreds of South African National Defense Force  (SANDF) troops over sexual exploitation and abuse allegations in the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC. Nosiviwe Mapisa Nqakula’s been clear about the country’s official posture regarding mounting claims of sexual exploitation and abuse against South African troops. “South Africa is fully committed to rooting out sexual abuse by peacekeepers and take such allegations in a serious light. Furthermore, South Africa is committed to the promotion and protection of human rights, with particular focus on the rights and welfare and protection of women in conflict countries. South Africa, as a member of the Circle of Leadership, has just signed the Voluntary Compact to fully support the Secretary-General’s efforts to implement the policy of zero tolerance of sexual exploitation and abuse (SEA) in United Nations peacekeeping operations.” The Compact which opened for signatures last September is intended to send a signal to the world of joint commitment and mutual accountability on the part of the United Nations and Member States on preventing and addressing sexual exploitation and abuse. “South Africa is also in the process of finalising the Military Disciplinary Supplement Bill, which will prohibit and criminalise SEA conducts in the area of deployment. Such measures are already been supported by appropriate preventative actions, awareness campaigns and pre-deployment training. South Africa fully supports the commitments contained in the Declaration as they place stronger emphasis on comprehensive measures in all aspects mediation, peacekeeping and the protection of civilians, post-conflict recovery and peace building.” UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres was asked if he could confirm that he was considering the DPKO recommendation to expel South African troops: “That has not yet happened, and so I will not comment on something that has not yet happened. Of course, I will be ready to discuss with the South African delegation whatever is relevant in relation to the presence of South African troops, and we cherish a lot the country of South Africans to peacekeeping.” The Defence department earlier confirmed that they would meet with DPKO leadership later Wednesday.