Zambia’s refusal to grant Professor Patrick Lumumba entry, has raised suspicions the country is clamping down on anti-China sentiment. But Zambia’s High commissioner to South Africa, Emmanuel Mwamba, says the country is not concerned about Lumumba’s opinions. Professor Lumumba, who delivered one of the Mandela Centenary Lectures in the Eastern Cape in July, was sent back by Zambia Immigration officials shortly after he landed at Kenneth Kaunda International Airport in Lusaka on Saturday. “China has defined what she needs and what she wants and she has identified that Africa has resources both in terms of minerals and agricultural resources and that Africa constitutes a big market. When China is handing down these many loans including the promise of $60 billion to African countries what will she get in return? My view is we must begin to ask the fundamental question what are we doing to ensure that China does not drive rough shod over Africa and that it is indeed a relationship that is mutually beneficial,” Professor Lumumba said earlier this month. Professor  Lumumba’s message on Africa-China relations is trending on the continent and beyond. Minister of Information Dora Siliya tweeted that the refusal was due to security considerations. And many have reacted with concerns Zambia may be clamping down on anti-China sentiment.    “It’s regrettable, as I stated we are yet to find out what the security concerns that the immigration department raised, you know refusal of entry by South Africa to our Laura Miti a few weeks ago, they cited the status of residence permit and she was returned to Zambia by immigration. I’m yet to get the particular details of Professor Lumumba’s denial of entry but that he can influence discussions in our country or that we are afraid of his opinions. No that’s not a matter that we get concerned about,”  says  Mwamba. Recent media reports painted a Zambia under siege from China, for defaulting on its loan repayments. But the country has denied that it is failing to pay or that its assets including its power utility, are being taken over by China. Ambassador Mwamba says the country will issue full details of its reasons on Monday. Watch related video below: 