Prosecutors around the world have agreed to work together to fight crime and injustices. This is one of the outcomes of the International Conference of Association of Prosecutors held in Johannesburg. The conference is aimed at helping raise standards for Prosecutors worldwide and improving international co-operation to combat crime. Watch below for the video report by Sophie Mokoena:  Meanwhile, Justice Minister Mike Masutha says the International Association of Prosecutors (IAP) should equip countries to pursue international crimes. The crimes include illicit financial flows, human trafficking, terror funding and trading in protected species. Masutha addressed senior prosecutors, Heads of Prosecuting agencies and Ministers of Justice from around the world who are meeting in Johannesburg. More than 400 prosecutors from around the world and the International Criminal Court are in South Africa. The Justice Minister explains that they are discussing the need for prosecutorial independence and their challenges. “It is essential that prosecutors gather to discuss methodologies for proper performance in combatting criminality particularly in its new form and dimension given the rapidly changing societies we live in today.” In South Africa, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) marks its 20th anniversary this year. Recent media reports indicate that the NPA has a backlog of nearly 700 cases – and is grappling with state capture. Masutha adds: “It is estimated that Africa loses over 50 billion dollars annually to criminal activities which rob us of resources that would help our development efforts. This is a criminal gain for the continent and mostly poor people and this relates to money laundering and trade in illicit and exotic biological species.” Masutha appealed to the IAP to equip African prosecutors with skills to handle these often complex and intricate cases. “The IAP should consider placing this issue on its agenda to include prosecuting beneficiaries and repatriation of much-needed resources to African countries.” Other crimes affecting the continent include terror funding, human trafficking and violent crimes against women and children.