The Department of Environmental Affairs says there has been a decrease in the number of rhinos poached nationally compared to the same period in 2017, with nearly all the provinces experiencing declines. Between January and 31 August 2018, more than 500 rhinos were poached as compared to 691 for the same period in 2017 countrywide. Authorities have expressed gratitude with the efforts to curb rhino poaching particularly with the major bust on the rhino poaching syndicate that was operating in the Kruger National Park. Five police officers including two alleged rhino poaching kingpins were the latest suspects to be arrested this week.  Statistics show that the Kruger National Park has been a crime haven for rhino poachers over the years. However, efforts by the SANParks and law enforcement agencies are yielding positive results in the fight against rhino poaching. During the past eight months a total of 292 rhinos were poached as compared to 332 in the same period last year in the Kruger National Park. This decline comes despite an escalation in poacher activity inside the Park. A total of 1873 incidences of poaching were recorded during this period. This is compared to 1 702 in 2017 in the same period.  Department of Environmental Affairs spokesperson Albi Modise says these crimes have a huge impact on the wildlife eco-tourism. “As the department and government of South Africa we welcome the arrest of the men who trafficking rhino horns and members of the syndicate that were arrested by the Hawks, the impact is quite bad because remember in the main, one of the areas of success as South Africa is in eco-tourism side, this (rhino poaching) hinders on the tourism sector.” This week the net closed in on seven suspects, including five police officers and two alleged rhino poaching kingpins during a joint operation by the Hawks and other agencies. One of the alleged kingpins, Joseph Nyalungu had his properties which include vehicles, furniture, a farm, luxury vehicles, motorbikes, trucks and an undisclosed amount of money attached by the SARS. Nyalungu is said to be owing SARS millions of rands. Nyalungu appeared in court together with another suspected poaching kingpin, Sydney Mabuza, a former Skukuza Police Station Commander, Phineus Lubisi and three others who are police officers. The seventh suspect Rachel Qwebane,  a police officer attached to the Acornhoek Stock Theft Unit in Acornhoek- handed herself over to the police on Thursday for her alleged involvement in the case.  “A suspect no 7 Rachel Qwebane, 33 years old, the female constable stationed at Acornhoek Stock theft Unit appeared before the Hazyview Magistrate’s Court and she was denied bail and remanded in custody. The case is postponed to 27 September, our investigation is still continuing we are looking for more arrests,” says Provincial Hawks Spokesperson Dineo Sekgotodi. Mpumalanga police say it is disappointed that some of the suspects are their own officials.   Provincial police spokesperson Mtsholi Bhembe says internal processes are underway to deal with the officers involved in these crimes. “We have received information that they have been arrested, what is going to happen now, the departmental processes are going to be invoked, so what is happening each and every case is treated on its merits, no matter if they are the same. It depends to each every case on the severity, seriousness and number of other issues that are taken into consideration; it is possible that the provincial commissioners may decide that the person involved in criminal conduct may become suspended.” The suspected kingpins, Nyalungu and Mabuza were arrested while they were out on bail on other rhino poaching related cases. Their case was postponed to next week Thursday for a formal bail application. Click below for more on the story: 