The United Nation (UN) Secretary-General António Guterres says he will launch a new strategy called Youth 2030 during the UN General Assembly next week – in the hope of spurring governments to do more to respond to the aspiration of young people. Speaking to the press to preview his agenda during the High Level week, he also revealed that they would launch a strategy to mobilise financing for the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development. “I often speak about a surge in diplomacy. Our world also needs a surge in investment in the Sustainable Development Goals. It is important that all developed countries meet the commitments they made in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. The United Nations, for its part, will continue to support developing countries in creating conditions for mobilizing domestic resources, including through tax reform and other good governance measures,” says Guterres. He says that despite some of the intractable conflicts and wars around the world such as Syria and Yemen, there are some situations, particularly in Africa that have given hope. “Last Sunday, I joined the leaders of Ethiopia and Eritrea to celebrate their declaration of peace. I applaud their vision in opening a new chapter in their relations, and I thank Saudi Arabia for facilitating the agreement. The Presidents of Djibouti and Eritrea subsequently launched in Jeddah a dialogue for peace as well.  And last week’s signing of a peace agreement on South Sudan, following efforts by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, in the EGAD Summit in Addis Ababa, is a further step in the right direction for the region and beyond,” says  Guterres. He says he has one overriding concern as heads of state and government descend on New York next week for the annual General Assembly. He believes the rise in unilateralism is underling the world’s rules-based system. “Multilateralism is under attack from many different directions, precisely when we need it most. I will use my meetings and other opportunities next week to press for renewed commitment to a rules-based global order and to the United Nations. The United Nations is the world’s indispensable forum for international cooperation.  The presence of 84 Heads of State and 44 Heads of Government is eloquent proof of the confidence of the international community in the United Nations,” he says.