African National Congress (ANC) NEC member and Convenor for national deployees in the North West, Obed Bapela says all members taking the organisation to court are in breach of the party’s constitution. Bapela was reacting to the threats by four regional executive committees in the province, who are challenging the party’s national leadership decision to disband Supra Mahumapelo’s provincial executive committee. They have written a letter to ANC secretary general, Ace Magashule saying the disbandment is unlawful. Since the announcement to disband Supra Mahumapelo’s provincial executive committee, party members in the province have voiced mixed reactions about the decision. Members are divided on whether to accept the decision taken by the highest structure of the party. Those opposing the decision intend challenging the matter in court. However in Ngaka Modiri Molema region, it seems the regional leadership is not speaking in one voice. Regional chairperson, Justice Makolomakwa, supports the decision and condemned those taking the party to court. “We can’t take African National Congress to court as ANC members. NEC is the highest decision making body in between conferences. As we are speaking now, we have been engaging with our branches and the worse the REC does not have those powers and there is no such a mandate to take ANC to court.” However, Makolomakwa’s view was opposed by his colleague, who is the spokesperson of the regional executive committee, Thabo Matlhoko. “We are just from a meeting with the REC and he was part of the meetings that we had Friday and Monday were we discussed the position of the REC on this matter resolved. Now if he decide to define himself outside the collective then we cannot be held accountable for his own thinking.” Ngaka Modiri Molema ANC alliance partners, have also joined the fray. They are in full support of the NEC decision, and the subsequent appointment of Premier Job Mokgoro as the convenor for the provincial task team. Their spokesperson is Khumalo Molefe. “We appreciate the fact that in processing the decision to disband the PEC in North West, the NEC was constitutional patient, systematic, evidence based and inclusive. We further welcome the appointment of the struggle veteran comrade Job Mokgoro as the PTT convenor. We know comrade Job Mokgoro as the first branch chairperson of the first greater Mahikeng ANC branch as early as 1989 when it was not fashionable to be a member of the ANC.” The Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati district was also represented by Bassie Moepeng.  “We cal on all members of the ANC and its alliance partners to desist from continuous communication and exchanging of organisational matters without following correct organisational procedures.We want it known by all in our glorious movement and everybody concerned in the country that we welcome the intervention of the NEC of our movement and request all members of the ANC in our province to be disciplined and distance themselves from acts of ill- discipline intended at undermining the authority of the NEC.” ANC national convenor in the North West, Obed Bapela, did not mince his words in dismissing a possibility of reversing the decision on the disbandment. “The reversal of the NEC decision is not possible under circumstances because it is not the first time that the PEC was dissolved by a structure of the national executive. Provinces have also been dissolving regions and no one has ever taken the ANC to court and some of the dissolutions took immediate decision of some sort and therefore what we are appealing to the members is to respect the decision of the higher structures.” Bapela adds that members of the provincial task team are expected to be formally announced next week, after the national working committee meeting.  