The Economic Freedom Fighters Student Command (EFFSC) is celebrating its victory in the hotly-contested Students’ Representative Council elections at the Durban University of Technology. The Independent Electoral Commission results indicate that the EFF won all eight seats against the African National Congress (ANC)’s South African Students Congress (Sasco) , the DA’s Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (Daso) , and IFP’s South African Democratic Students Movement (Sadesmo) . The counting process started on Friday. EFF’s Students’ Command chairperson Khanyisani Khambule says their duty is to ensure that all students, regardless of their party affiliation, are assisted when in need. “I can say what happened this weekend – is something that no one expected. The EFF Student Command took all eight seats in DUT, we have achieved the victory – the students have spoken to us – they said to us – they are waiting for a change.” “We are going to make sure every student is represented fairly regardless of their political affiliation because the experience from previous SRC is that they only help you if you are part of their politics or friends,” explains Khambule.   Meanwhile, the ANC and its Youth League contested among themselves in the elections. The League’s chairperson Zikhalele Ndlela says they have filed objections with the institution, and the Objections Committee, to challenge the technicalities of the voting process. “We are still analysing the result as an organisation but also there is a process that was undertaken during voting. There were many objections written to the institution and theIEC and we are not satisfied about the process. From day one, we were writing objections in terms of the process in the ballot papers – there were some pictures that are black and white – some are blurry, some logos are blurry and some are brighter than others.” “It’s not about the outcome it’s all about the process. I do not know whether to call it a defeat or what at the end of the day we have to accept whatever the outcome. Now we are not going to vacate the office anytime soon, until the final outcome list by the objections committee,” adds Ndlela.  