Police Minister Bheki Cele says institutions of learning should not become war zones. Cele visited the University of Zululand on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast, where a student was allegedly stabbed by another on campus, over the weekend. Cele has raised concerns over the growing amount of violence among students at places of learning. He says the safety of students and educators should be prioritized. Cele has called for the intervention of the two educational ministries, Basic and Higher Education in order to help curb the on-going violence at schools and universities. The student was allegedly stabbed to death by his roommate. The accused student, who now faces a murder charge, is under heavy police guard in hospital after being severely injured in a mob attack by students. Another student was also reportedly killed at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Westville campus at the weekend. In another incident, a 17-year-old learner stabbed his teacher to death at a school in the North West province. Cele says institutions of learning cannot be a war zone. “Institutions of learning should be safe. I have called for the Department of Higher Education and Basic Education to form a campaign so that our institutions of learning are safe.” Cele says they are still investigating the motive behind the stabbing incident at UniZulu. However, he condemned the students for attacking the alleged stabber. “We are still investigating the motive. But I just want to condemn the action by the students first taking the law into their own hands.” Meanwhile, students raised concerns about their safety, on and off campus. Many say their safety is not prioritized by the institution. “We are not safe. People walk in as they please and securities here are not equipped to ensure our safety. Safety around this institution remains a serious problem. More needs to be done.” Cele has called on police to identify each and every student shown in a viral video, attacking the alleged stabber. Click below for more on the story : 