South Africa says it’s on standby should the cholera outbreak reach the country. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi says he is worried about the outbreak in neighbouring Zimbabwe, that has killed 30 people and infected 4000 more. Zimbabwe is battling its deadliest cholera epidemic in a decade, as aid agencies deploy more volunteers to assist. Police have banned public gatherings and removed street vendors in the capital, Harare. In 2008, Zimbabwe under President Robert Mugabe, suffered its biggest cholera outbreak at the height of an economic crisis. Sanctions from the international community made it hard to bring aid into the country. Ten years later, officials are desperate to avoid a repeat of 2008 as the death toll climbs to 30. The government has introduced new antibiotics after the cholera strain was found to be resistant to some drugs. At least 4 000 people are infected. “I’m experiencing a runny stomach with vomiting, I’m very weak with a headache, and I’m also bleeding,” said cholera patient Eustine Mabika. National and local politicians are trading blame over government’s failure to maintain safe water supplies and infrastructure.The country has been forced to declare a health emergency. Meanwhile, South Africa is on high alert,  Motsoaledi says movement across the two borders makes the country vulnerable. “Not yet, we are expecting that very soon with the movement of people and migration of people. We are on our tenterhooks and I must say we are worried, but no cases have been reported yet,”  said  Motsoaledi. The crisis is a test for President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s new government, under pressure to rebuild the country. Police have also banned street vendors in the capital. For many residents the threat of cholera remains high, amid signs the disease could spread outside Harare. “The borehole that we have been using has been closed down leaving us with no source of fresh water. We have no choice, but we might end up looking for water in those affected areas and that way it will be difficult to prevent more deaths, ” says resident Janet Chari. The Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube’s attempt to raise funds on social media sparked a backlash with some users condemning the plan as an insult to taxpayers. The 2008 cholera outbreak killed 4000 people,  while 40 000 were treated for infections.