Tourism ministers and stakeholders from around the SADC region and other parts of Africa are meeting in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. They will discuss and exchange experiences relating to tourism in Africa, as well as map the way forward in the tourism and hospitality industry. This comes at a time when the continent is building its productive capacities and deepening regional integration. South African Tourism Minister, Derek Hanekom is among those in attendance. Tourism remains an important sector for many African economies. It greatly contributes to the GDPs and employment creations in several countries. According the World Travel & Tourism Council, in 2017, tourism contributed 10.4% of the world’s GDP (US$ 8.3 trillion). It also accounted for 235 million jobs, or one in every 10 jobs worldwide. However, most African countries still face significant challenges and constraints in exploiting the potential of tourism services in trade and economic development. The Zimbabwean government has already sighted tourism as one of its key economic drivers after Agriculture and mining. “The new dispensation recognizes tourism as one of the critical economic drivers, as such tourism is regarded as a priority economic sector with the potential to stimulate development and economic revival. In this regard a 15-million tourism support facility has been established through the reserve bank of Zimbabwe to support emerging and existing tourism businesses,” said Zimbabwe vice President of Constentino Chiwenga. Authorities are making sure that they do not lose out due to unfriendly tourism polices, including restrictive visa regimes and border delays. “The upgrading and modernisation of these border posts will go a long way in assisting the country to regain lost market share, especially of the self-drive traffic from South Africa. Noting that South Africa is our biggest market, I challenge the tourism and hospitality industry to increase tourist arrivals from SA from about 716 000 in 2017 to surpass the over 1,6 million visitors registered in 2006, by year 2023,” added Chiwenga. Watch video below:   