The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader Nkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi says he would not change very much in his long life, though he has again apologised for the mistakes he has made. Buthelezi was speaking at his 90th birthday celebration ceremony at the Durban ICC on Friday night. Various dignitaries from different provinces, neighbouring countries and some came as far as the USA along with leaders from different political parties attended the celebration of Inkosi Buthelezi’s birthday. Music was the order of the day and it was accompanied by different beverages. The IFP leader referred to his earlier political career in the African National Congress (ANC). “What is more remarkable is that my conscience is quite clear ladies and gentleman, as far as my pilgrimage is concerned. There are very few things I would not do again if given a chance like any human being. I have made mistakes. But I have no regrets concerning my political career. I obeyed my leaders like Luthuli and Oliver Tambo.” His son Zuzi Buthelezi says he is always hands-on all the time as he likes washing dishes. “When he is in Cape Town, he stays in this house where they cook for him. He stays there and go to parliament. When the people who cook for him have gone, he washes the dishes. Would you believe that? He washes the dishes very meticulously, while they put them away. What an embarrassment to the people who look after the house, but he insists.” USA Film director Dr. Leo Alyen was part of the celebration and he says he will produce a film soon about Buthelezi’s life. “I am here because I know Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi from long time ago. I was invited to make a film about Buthelezi’s life and work.” IFP’s KwaZulu-Natal Secretary Velenkosini Hlabisa described Buthelezi as pillar of strength to South Africa. “The IFP president has been and is the honest servant the people of South Africa. He is the man and individual who have stood the test of times and brought hope to the country.” Zenani Mandela, daughter of former President Nelson Mandela, burst into tears while speaking at the event, when she recalled an alleged incident involving Buthelezi, her mother Winnie and the then President Thabo Mbeki. “In June 2001, not far from my house in Orlando West, Prince Buthelezi was the one to stand to pick up my mother’s cap after it fell to the ground when she was cruelly pushed away by then President Thabo Mbeki. Not only did Buthelezi needed to get up and picked up my mother’s cap but he replaced it on my mother’s head, while Mbeki sat stone-faced and called and hurling abusive words to my mother who was to extend warmth to the President of the country,” adds Zenani Mandela. The former President of the country F. W. De Klerk called Buthelezi as one of the tough negotiator during the democratic negotiations. “Over the years of negotiations, I have learnt that you were tough negotiator. Sometimes when you came to the cabinet room you brought the sjambok your son was speaking about. There was the time I was very frustrated. As no doubt you were extremely frustrated by me during those tough time. But you risen above those problems.” Click below for related video… 