Property owners who rent out buildings, used as spaza shops, to foreigners in Soweto live in fear as threats of violence against them intensify. Last week, chaos broke out in several parts of the township, as locals clashed with foreign traders. Three people were killed. The looting and violence follow allegations that foreign-owned shops were selling fake or expired goods. Threats of extreme violence against both foreign nationals and their landlords have been making the rounds in Soweto. This has left the owners of the properties which are rented out to foreign nationals to fear for their lives. The attacks have reportedly been planned for this weekend. Residents say the community has threatened to even burn down their houses so that foreign nationals stop conducting business in the community. Gauteng police say they are aware of the threats and they aren’t taking them lightly. Spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini says police remain vigilant. “Police are aware of this information circulating on social media regarding the allegations of the attacks on foreign nationals. We are concerned and we are taking this allegations very seriously. Police are also appealing to community members to discuss these issues with the affected parties to resolve the matter. Police have increased deployment since the violence erupted last week and we will be taking any steps to make sure the violence does not happen again.” The landlords say they want the foreigners to resume business in the township as they help the community by selling affordable goods.. The Soweto Vendors Association says they want all the foreigners operating in the township to only buy the products they sell in their shops from local manufacturers. The association’s Jacob Tshlatswayo says the people of Soweto have to benefit as well. However, this was met with harsh criticism from other Soweto residents. Tshepho Monyake says the Soweto Vendors Association is just using the current situation for their personal gain. Foreign owned shops remain closed in Soweto 