Despite growing calls for North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo to immediate resign, government says it has not taken a decision to show Mahumapelo the door. Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says the newly-formed task team which will go on a fact finding mission to the province, has not been given a mandate to discuss Mahumapelo’s exit. She was briefing the media in Parliament following a cabinet meeting. “On engaging Premier Supra Mahumapelo on whether he should actually to step down, that is not the brief of government and the team for now. The team is out in bringing to book all the issues into perspective, all the issues that have been raised. “We must also be quite aware that there are already interactions that have happened at the level of the president, and the premier of the North West as well as the work that has been done through the ruling party and the president of the ruling party who happens to be the president of the country. So yes this team is not engaging the premier on him resigning or not.” A group campaigning for the immediate remove of North West premier Supra Mahumapelo has called on the traditional leaders to boycott a meeting with him today. The security situation has deteriorated and political tensions have heightened in the province. Mahumapelo has been accused of corruption and not doing enough to ensure the delivery of basic services. He is scheduled to meet with traditional leaders at the Sun City resort to present his side of the story about the current crisis. Thato Magogodi is the leader of the anti-Mahumapelo Revolutionary Council. “We want to call on our traditional leaders not to attend that gathering. And if it takes place call on our people to go and demonstrate and not disrupt to send a message to Mahumapelo that by calling our chiefs on the side and try to bribe them not to support the call that he be removed.”   PRESIDENT RAMAPHOSA APPOINTS INTER-MINISTERIAL TASK TEAM ON NORTH-WEST President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed an Inter-Ministerial Task Team to give urgent attention to matters of governance and risks facing the North West province. This development follows the President’s visit to the province a week ago and is a response to appeals by the people of the North-West and a range of other concerned stakeholders that government should intervene. At its meeting of Wednesday, April 25 2018, Cabinet deliberated on the unstable situation that has unfolded in North West, and which has affected a number of services, particularly health services. Among other resolutions, Cabinet approved the invoking of Section 100(1)(b) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, to address the apparent crisis, particularly in the health sector. The President has directed the Inter-Ministerial Task Team to: 1. Conduct an urgent assessment of the state of governance in the North-West Province; 2. Advise Cabinet on potential risks facing the province; 3. Provide Cabinet with a comprehensive report on the state of governance in the province, at the Cabinet meeting of 9 May 2018. The report should advise on steps to be taken in respect of the Task Team’s findings, and 4. Remain seized with the North-West matter until all critical issues are resolved. The Inter-Ministerial Task Team comprises: Minister in The Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma (Convenor);
Minister of Health, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi
Minister of Finance, Mr Nhlanhla Nene
Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Dr Zweli Mkhize
Minister of Public Works, Mr Thulas Nxesi
Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Mr Senzeni Zokwana
Minister of Defence and Military Veterans, Ms Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula
Minister of Police, Mr Bheki Cele
Minister of State Security, Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba and
Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Adv Michael Masutha. About Abongwe Kobokana View all posts by Abongwe Kobokana