The African National Congress (ANC) needs to be united if it wants to liberate the people of South Africa. That was the message from National Executive Committee (NEC) member and head of elections, Fikile Mbalula. He delivered the eulogy at the funeral of a long standing political activist Yengwayo Kutta on Saturday. Forty-nine-year-old Kutta died at his home in Goodwood after suffering a heart attack. Kutta was hailed as an outstanding community leader and an exceptional political activism. Many gathered to say their final goodbyes and speak about him. Speaker after speaker praised Kutta for his massive role in politics from a very young age. His leadership skills began during his school days in the late 1980s at Malizo Senior Secondary School. He later became chairperson of the SRC at Matthew Goniwe Memorial High School. While he spent most of his life serving the people – to his family he was a beacon of hope. Kutta suffered a heart attack and died at his home two weeks ago. His wife Nontsikelelo Kutta said she will miss him. “You may not have realised but you left an amazing legacy. We are your legacy. Sqwabane, Nkumbuzo, Golela rest in peace sthandwa. I will miss you when you come home and ask ndisenaye na umfazi (do I still have a wife?).” His brother Msizeli Kutta says the late Kutta was a beacon of hope. “It would have been better if he got sick first of all but he just died suddenly and it was a shock to all of us. Ooooh that man was a beacon of hope, if you know what is a beacon of hope. He was friendly to all of us. He was very assertive, he advised all of us. As a family we all miss him.” His love for development in black townships and serving the people saw Kutta as an active member in the ANC until his death. In his eulogy NEC member Mbalula emphasised the concept of unity and for comrades to stand firm on what they believe in. “He was a loyal comrade. He was very clear on his views. He was not fake… we are left with a struggle to liberate our people here in the Western Cape and all over… it is going to be a struggle. Kutta leaves behind his wife, two children, brother, sister, nephews and nieces. Watch for more:  About Nomawethu Solwandle View all posts by Nomawethu Solwandle