North West Premier, Supra Mahumapelo has suggested that the nation must embrace Nelson Mandela’s legacy of forgiveness in his centenary birthday. Mahumapelo, who is attending the funeral services of former Bophuthatswana in Motswedi village near Zeerust in the North West, says with Mandela in mind, those who feel aggrieved by Lucas Mangope should forgive him. He says forgiveness and reconciliation are important for nation building. Mahumapelo says, “I want to quote Mr Nelson Mandela, because as the ANC we are celebrating him this year, he says ‘hatred is like drinking poison and expected the next person will die’. I am saying this because there are people that have been making comments on social media, despicable comments, comments that are not nation building.” “They say we should not, as government come and support the family during this time. They say, we should not come to Mangope’s funeral. Forgiveness and reconciliation in South Africa are important aspect in the country that we should all embrace,” he adds.  Popo Molefe lauds Mangope The first premier of the North West in democratic South Africa Popo Molefe has lauded former Bophotshatswana leader for his contribution to the economy of the province. Molefe says during intense negotiations to convince Mangope to join the new South Africa, they recall his commitment to economic issues. Speaking at Mangope’s funeral, Popo hailed Mangope for laying out a solid foundation for economic growth in the platinum province. “In all homeland leaders, he started a great foundation to create jobs for our people. Places like Mogwase, Babalegi and others there were lot of job created, although we differed in ideology. After Mangope accepted that there’s a new government, we started working very well with great respect for each other. For me as a premier, because we were new, we learnt a lot on how to govern.” The North West government has refuted allegations that President Jacob Zuma rejected its application to grant former homeland leader, Kgosi Lucas Mangope, a provincial official funeral. Premier Supra Mahumapelo says the application was made, but only a government regional funeral was approved. Watch Lucas Mangope funeral in full:  About Lucas Mothibedi View all posts by Lucas Mothibedi