The Mpumalanga Police Commissioner Mondli Zuma and other government officials have visited the family of the late Community Safety Spokesperson Joseph Mabuza. Mabuza died when his motorbike collided with a vehicle on the N4 toll road on Sunday. The driver of the vehicle fled the scene after the crash. Police have launched a manhunt for the driver. Mabuza promoted road safety. Tributes are continuing to pour in. On the other hand, preparations for Thursday’s memorial service of Mabuza are at an advance stage. Zuma says a joint committee has been established to liaise with Mabuza’s family ahead of the memorial service and the funeral. He says the net is slowly closing in on the man who fled the scene after the crash in which Mabuza was killed. He says they now know the man’s name and his relatives. “We do have a committee that is working jointly with Department of Community Safety where he was employed trying to put together preparations also for the funeral. With regard to what happened to the late Joseph Mabuza, we are investigating this matter. The suspect who was driving the vehicle that collided with him is on the run. We are pursuing that suspect, but he is known to us.” Former African National Congress (ANC) Treasurer-General and Mpumalanga Premier Mathews Phosa has described Mabuza as a man of integrity and discipline. Phosa says Mabuza was a journalist when he met him. “But he also became a friend; not only a friend, but also a family friend and also a business partner not looking for a session but looking for the truth all the time. It’s a great loss, not only for the family but for the people of Mpumalanga as well, and I’m not just saying because people like talking like that when someone has passed on. I mean it from the bottom of my heart.” The Caxton National group editor for local newspapers and former Lowveld Media group editor, Irma Green says she was shocked when she heard about Mabuza’s death. Green says Mabuza joined the Lowveld media in Mpumalanga in the early 90s as a young journalist. She says Mabuza later became editor of Mpumalanga News before joining the provincial government. “When he joined the Lowveld media in 2000, I think soft spoken kind and humble young man, and it was such privilege to afford him an opportunity to learn to gain journalism and he eventually became the editor of Mpumalanga News. You know, when I learnt about his death it was extreme great shock. When I look at the social media comments it is evidence and a reflection of who Joseph was and his character.” Mabuza’s memorial service will be held at the Communion Church in Mbombela. Click below for more on the story: 