Police are out in force in major centres across the country as South Africans count down to 2019. Fireworks displays and street parties are planned for many cities. People are urged to remember their pets and ensure that they are protected from any loud noises. In Hillbrow, Johannesburg, thousands of people are already on the streets as celebrations kick into high gear. There is a strong police presence in the densely populated area. Acting Gauteng Police Commissioner Max Masha says police want people to enjoy tonight. “Sometimes during this time people stab each other, people assault each other. Sometimes some people even get murdered. We want to prevent this. We want tonight people to enjoy but in their enjoyment nobody must get hurt. “We have home affairs, we have Metro, SAPS, all the forces are here. But we not only focused in Hillborw, but we also in the CBD. Our hotspots tonight is JHB central, Hillbrow, Sunnyside and the Vaal.”  The Johannesburg Metro Police will also be on high alert. JMPD Chief David Tembe says. ” We’ll be visible all over Johannesburg especially when it comes to Hillbrow, Berea, Yoeville, Braamfontein. Remember we’ve got Afropunk that has got plus minus 10 000, we have got Mary Fitzgerald that we’ve got, a gathering there will be music. We have got again Braamfontein. So our hands are full but then we are sure we are going to make everybody feel safe.” Police deployment at Cape Town beaches Cape Town revelers can be sure they will be safe. The city and police have ramped up deployment levels at beaches, party spots and public spaces. The V and A Waterfront in Cape Town is a hive of activity in anticipation of tonight’s New Year’s Eve celebrations. The popular tourist spot attracts thousands of revelers. More than a 100 000 people are expected to celebrate here tonight…in anticipation of one the most spectacular firework displays being set off at mid night. Eateries and restaurants are packed, with some having long queues outside. Live entertainment in the open air amphitheater will take people into the new year.  New Year’s celebrations around SA The spokesperson of the V&A Waterfront, Donald Kau, says they are expecting thousands of visitors to the popular Cape Town tourist attraction. The waterfront is the meeting point to celebrate New Year’s Eve celebrations. A big part of festivities here includes a spectacular fireworks display. Kau says they’ve spaced entertainment across the precinct to avoid congestion.   