In Parliament, MPs wished the country well, as they bid farewell to the 2018 Parliamentary session. MPs took a sober look at the year that has past and reflected on some of the work they did. “This year was a year categorised by parliamentary vibrancy and robust discussion and this was evidenced by a number of ad hoc committees that did the work. We also remember those who were with us in this house. Our fellow compatriots, who passed on while we were still fighting together. Now we need to pause and say thank you to everyone who assisted us to come this this point,” says National Freedom Party’s Prof. Nhlanhla Khubisa. “I must say as the UDM, we are very proud to be associated with this August house and we have thoroughly enjoyed working with you over the past twelve months. I can also say we have managed to represent those who have mandated us to represent them in this house. However, despite of these achievements like the passing of good legislations, much more must still be done to ensure that we build a better life for all South Africans,” says  United Democratic Front‘s Nqabayomzi Kwankwa. “There is no time to rest as we are going for 2019 elections, at the same time we are expected now to be with our families. Chair, we are now getting used to the squabbles, the noise, the disorder and everything of this house. Something that should not happen really,” says Lulama Ntshayisa of the African Independent Congress. Inkatha Freedom Party’s Mkhuleko Hlengwa says, “We have always been reminded that we are not enemies but we are all together colleagues in the national service of our people. Let us convey our deepest condolences to all the political parties and families that have lost loved ones this year, our colleagues who through different ways have been called to higher service. May we honour their memory by continuing the good work that they did in this house, and well beyond its walls.” “We thank the people of South Africa who kept interest in Parliament, we wish them a great festive season. We don’t wish racists a good festive season. We don’t wish those who don’t want our people to the land, a great festive season. We don’t wish people who come to this parliament and bash education, a good festive season, no. So we say to the people of South Africa, do not neglect the children and the elderly,” says Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, of the Economic Freedom Fighters. “I truly believe that where there is courage, we will find hope and this year has demonstrated this. Excellent work done by Parliament on the many pieces of legislation. The bipartisan work that happens in committees and corridors on a daily basis, that seldom if ever make the news, the shining example this parliament held up with the Eskom Inquiry, and those heady days as we closed the chapter on the Zuma years. South Africa is a proud nation and we are all proud South Africans,” says Democratic Alliance’s John Steenhuisen. “No matter of our political persuasions and organisations, one thing that I have learnt is that we are just human beings at heart, all of us. You know together in this year, we have been able to do so many wonderful things. One of those is what has been already referred to by some of our colleagues. Coming up with a rule that will give effect to Section 89 of our Constitution. It is something we must be proud of, because future generations will say this is what the fifth parliament did,” says Jackson Mthembu, of the African National Congress. Just one National Council of Provinces (NCOP) committee has some work to round up until the 22 December. Thereafter, some committees will resume their work during January, with the State of the Nation Address being delivered on the 7th of February. Watch a related video below: 