Limpopo premier Stan Mathabatha is expected to announce far reaching decisions on the municipal mayors and officials implicated in the VBS Bank looting and collapse. He’s expected to release a forensic report instituted by the provincial Treasury department. It will follow that of the Reserve Bank’s Grand Heist report compiled by Advocate Terry Motau. The Grand Heist report has implicated two senior ANC officials – Treasurer Danny Msiza and deputy chairperson and Vhembe district executive mayor Florence Radzilani. Ten municipalities have invested R1,2 billion in the liquidated VBS mutual bank. More than R1,2 billion rand meant for service delivery in communities has gone down the drain. The public funds were invested in the liquidated VBS by some municipalities in the province. The municipalities include the newly formed Collins Chabanne in Malamuele, Fetakgomo-Tubatse in Burgersfort, Vhembe district, Giyani, Lepelle-Nkumpi, Makhuduthamaga, Makhado, Polokwane, Ephraim Mogale and Polokwane. Some municipal councils have started removing the officials implicated in the saga. The provincial government then instituted its forensic investigations against the municipalities. Premier Stan Mathabatha has hinted that some leaders are going to be removed from their positions. He said this while addressing the ANC lists conference over the weekend. “If you didn’t ask questions of why you were deployed you can’t later ask questions as to why you are redeployed if you’re not willing to subject yourself to these processes you shouldn’t accept deployment through the same processes no one should ever think of herself or himself as bigger than the other members of the African National Congress.” Mathabatha said that the leaders should not defy orders to remove them from their positions as the ANC has the powers to put and remove them. “Remember if the ANC deploys it also have a right to redeploy. These branches which are gathered here have also given the power to the provincial executive committee to recall anyone who’s deployed through this process we don’t want to hear stories of people wanting to defy the ANC decision. No one should think of herself or himself as bigger than the other members of the African National Congress.” The implicated senior ANC leaders in the province – Treasurer Danny Msiza and deputy chairperson and Vhembe district executive mayor – Florence Radzilani – were stopped from attending the provincial lists conference. This after the ANC National Working Committee recommended that all leaders implicated in the VBS scandal must step aside from their positions. In the North West, four municipal mayors implicated in the VBS saga have been removed from their positions last week. 