The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD)  has warned motorists of heavy traffic on the N1 highway towards Bloemfontein. This as holiday makers are heading to different directions. JMPD’s Spokesperson Wayne Minnaar says traffic is again flowing on the N1 north towards Limpopo and the N3 towards KwaZulu-Natal, after they were heavily back-up from late Friday afternoon. JMPD has also encouraged motorists to be cautious during this festive season. Over 100 people were arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol last week. Minnaar says these numbers could reduce drastically if drunk drivers spent at least 7 days in custody before being considered for bail. “I think it’s important that motorists must share the road and not to drive above the speed limit because speed is the number one factor every time there is a fatal accident. And not to overtake on the road when it is dangerous particularly on a rise or curve or on solid white line. And then not to drink and drive and to take it easy,” says Minnaar.  High traffic volume towards Tugela Plaza Meanwhile, the N3 toll concession has reported high traffic volume as holiday makers make their way into KwaZulu-Natal. This as schools across the country have closed and the festive season gets underway. N3 toll concession Commercial Manager Con Roux says about 1800 vehicles passed through the Tugela Plaza since this morning. He says they are expecting the number to increase in the next hour… “The latest traffic volume is 1800 vehicles per hour heading south through Tugela Plaza that’s situated at the foot of Van Reneens pass so very busy traffic volumes through that plaza. Currently 1500 vehicles per hour through Mooi Plaza heading towards Durban but we’re expecting the traffic volumes to pick up in the next hour or so. So these are very busy conditions at the moment at the N3 toll route between Heidleburg and Cedara an traffic is currently flowing.” ‘N-1 towards Limpopo not congested’ Traffic authorities in Limpopo say the flow of north and south bound traffic on the N-1 is not congested. About 1 600 vehicles have been recorded at the Kranskop Toll Gate by midday. The department has also installed speed cameras and temporary barricades near Modimolle to help reduce accidents. Transport MEC Makoma Makhurupetje says there will be an increase of traffic officers throughout the festive season along the N1. “This December they are willing to work 24 hours. They will be all over; that is why we are able to declare Limpopo a Zero tolerance and you can seen that indeed. We are doing very very well except one spoiler last night, but it was not so bad as we thought. But now as we say the traffic is flowing it has been increasing since yesterday as we speak we are at one point six per hour, and I am happy last night the traffic went a bit down.” Authorities on high alert Law enforcement officers in the Free State have expressed concern over a spate of road fatalities in the province. Thus far 29 people have been killed in several crashes in the province since the beginning of the month. Authorities say they are on high alert for any eventuality. They have pleaded with motorists to exercise maximum caution. The Free State is surrounded by six provinces and this often leads to high traffic volumes and an increase in crashes. Despite this, most holiday makers are satisfied with the road safety campaigns.  