Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewalt has accused President Cyril Ramaphosa of failing to build the nation and makes racism a White problem. Groenewalt spoke during a media briefing on the FF-Plus’s assessment of the cabinet and government for 2018. He made reference to Ramaphosa’s recent response on a local radio station interview when he condemned the recent remarks made by Black First Land First Leader Andile Mxitama against White people. Groenewalt claims that the President condemned Mngxitama’s comments but also decided to blame Whites for racism. “According to section 83 (C) of the constitution his has got a constitutional obligation to ensure the nation building in South Africa. But as we listen to the remarks he made in South African and specifically on some radio station where he referred to the hate speech of the BLF leader he then only said it’s a voice in the desert, but he then decided to shift the focus on White people saying that the racists in the White community must be isolated.” “Now that does not create nation building and that does not create national cohesion. In fact that creates polarisation.” The Freedom Front Plus says it will approach the court as the last resort should President Ramaphosa fail to sign the Political Party Funding Bill into law. Groenewalt says his party will write to the President to explain why he is delaying to sign the Bill into law. The Bill was passed by both Houses of Parliament about six months ago. Groenewalt spoke during a media briefing in Parliament on the FF-Plus’s assessment of the cabinet and government for 2018. “We will write to him to ask what are the reasons. And depending on what reasons he gives us, we will have to make a decision whether we take it further. And yes, one of the processes is to go to the court, but we don’t want to do that. We do believe that we can solve this problem because it is important for multi-party democracy.” The FF Plus leader has given the Cyril Ramaphosa administration a 25-percent score card for their performance this year. He elaborates on some of the reasons for the low marks. “Firstly we say that we give them an FF- rate for the government for 2018. In other words they do not pass. In fact we give them 25-percent for the government’s of this year. And the reasons are that firstly that we only have 23 percent of government departments who have a clean audit. That means that more than 78 percent of the departments do  not do a proper work as far as the spending of tax payers money is concerned. “We also see that 40 percent of the total budget, when it comes to government departments, are used to pay salaries. Now we know that economists and other institutions said if we want to survive we will have to ensure that when it comes to the spending of salaries we will have to reduce the number of civil servants in the government departments,” Groenewalt explains. Related video click below: 