The late former African National Congress (ANC) Treasurer General Mendi Msimang has been described as an honest man who put the governing party’s financial systems in order. Former President Kgalema Motlanthe described him as having left a legacy the ANC can be proud of. Msimang, who would have turned 90 on Saturday, will be laid rest on the day in Pretoria. Hundreds of mourners gathered in Johannesburg to pay tribute to the former Treasurer General of the ANC, Mendi Msimang. Amongst them was former President Kgalema Motlanthe who has applauded the late former ANC Treasurer General for his selfless role in enhancing the work of the party during his tenure as Treasurer General. He has described him as an honest man who put the governing party’s financial systems in order for the benefit of all within the movement. Montlanthe says a lot needs to be learnt from this fallen hero. ”Uncle Mendi will take all the tickets for the day and keep them over the weekend and then Madiba says on Monday he will bring all the monies to the last penny. And so, Madiba felt that Uncle Mendi was most trustworthy when it came to the finances of the organisation.” A quiet man but whose work spoke volumes. This was the testimony of those who worked closely with him. Former ANC Treasurer General, Mathews Phosa who took the reigns from the late Mendi says he is greatful for the opportunity to have worked with this giant. “I had a privilege to be the successor to Comrade Mendi Msimang as the Treasurer-General and see first-hand what a giant he was in our movement. Of course, he had a privilege of following in the footsteps of our giants like OR Tambo and Nelson Mandela in their Law firm not far from here at Chancellor House.” Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) President, Zingiswa Losi says there is a lot to be learnt from Mendi, including his unique way of handling the ANC finances for a decade but yet was never fingered for corrupt activities. “Comrade Tata Mendi Msimang was the face of discipline – a face of humbleness and had demi nor which over the years made the ANC the most trusted liberation movement in Africa and in the world. His exemplary conduct and posture communicated a message that the ANC was an organisation which could be trusted by our people.” The Russian Communist Party says during the days when Msimang was in exile, he showed interest in serving the people before his personal interest. Russian Communist Party’s Tetekin Viacheslav says this was a selfless leader. “He was part of leaders within the ANC who were going all out in making sure that all people are liberated in South Africa.  He was part of that outstanding team of leaders of the ANC with Oliver Tambo, Walter Sisulu, Alfred Nzo and many others. In fact you must know that he was so profound and energetic right from the start.” Msimang will be laid to rest on Saturday during a special official funeral. Click below for more on the story: 