The late Mpumalanga Community Safety, Security and Liaison Department’s Spokesperson Joseph Mabuza has been laid to rest at the Heroes Acre in Mbombela, Mpumalanga. Mabuza died after his motorbike collided with a vehicle that was allegedly making a U-turn on the N4 toll road near Hectorspruit. Mourners from different parts of the country gathered at the Communio Church in Mbombela to pay their last respect to Mabuza. Deputy Transport Minister Sindisiwe Chikunga lead mourners in song at the Communio Church in Mbombela. Among those who attended Mabuza’s funeral was Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtsweni, KwaZulu-Natal Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda, and MEC Butana Komphela, who represented the Free State government. Deputy Minister Chikunga says traffic officers have arrested a larger number of people driving under the influence of alcohol. She called on the community at large to promote road safety. “Today (Saturday), we are here to bid farewell to one of the ambassadors we have been robbed off by the very carnage. Our messages are there to ask for you to take out the spear of this fallen road safety warrior to battle against this very carnage that Joseph fought with such passion.” Mabuza’s colleague, Moeti Mmusi says Mabuza dedicated his entire life to work. “The Sibuyane family and Mabuza families is pleased to find comfort in the knowledge that he was indeed a great soldier who died while his boots were on. He wanted to hit home to the road users of the roads that indeed they needed to behave and obey the rules so that they need not end up at the mortuaries. We need to shut them down. In his view, he wanted people to die naturally and not be taken away from us on the road. He wanted South African roads to stop becoming the killing hills but traveling where everybody would move freely and obey the rules of the road.” Mabuza’s daughter, Nthabiseng says their father taught them to be patient. “My father wasn’t given a lot, but he did the best with what he had. He started off with almost nothing and he made something out of it. My father was very affectionate. He made sure that we knew that we are loved, appreciated and that he will always be there for us.” Mabuza’s wife, Winnie, has described her husband as an intelligent person, with a sense of humour. “Thank you for sharing your life with me for the past 23 years. What a handsome, intelligent and loving husband. Your calmness, entertainment and sense of humour always attracted me to you. Thank you for taking care of me and the children. The love that you gave your family both Sibuyane and the Mabuza and Dludlu is unmatched. To everyone here, I am so sorry that Mr Mabuza messed up your Christmas holidays hence this was his schedule during festive season. You are already missed my love and may your soul rest in peace until we meet again. So much love for you Minikati we Province, as I used to call you. Goodnight, from your loving wife,” says Winnie’s letter to Joseph was red by Hlengiwe Dludlu. The 47-year-old Joseph Mabuza is survived by his wife, four children, a grandchild, three sisters, three brothers and his mother. Police have identified the driver who fled the scene after the crash that killed Mabuza.  