Two police officers have been killed in two separate road crashes in Gauteng this weekend. In the first incident near Atteridgeville in Pretoria west, an officer was run over by an allegedly drunk driver at a roadblock at the corner of the R511 and R512 roads. In the second incident, an off-duty officer lost his life when the vehicle he was traveling in crashed into a truck on the R21 near Olifantsfontein, south of Pretoria. “A male suspect who was allegedly intoxicated at the time, was arrested for culpable homicide and for driving under the influence of alcohol. In the second incident, it is alleged that a vehicle with two occupants crashed into a truck on the R21 near Olifantsfontein. Both the driver and the passenger, one of whom has since been confirmed as a 38-year-old Warrant Officer stationed at National Head Office, were declared dead on the scene,” says Gauteng Police Spokesperson Mathapelo Peters. Acting Gauteng Provincial Police Commissioner Max Masha has expressed his condolences to the families of two officers who lost their lives. “The irony in this is that the integrated law enforcement agencies have since the beginning of the second phase of the Safer Festive Season operations – which started on the 14 December 2018 – embarked on operations focusing largely on road law enforcement. So, these deaths are really sad and we thus urge the public to observe and respect traffic laws and rather find alternative means of transport after indulging in alcohol or drugs,” says Gauteng Police Spokesperson Mathapelo Peters. Meanwhile, more than 700 motorists will spend the long weekend behind bars in KwaZulu-Natal. They have been arrested for offences including drunk driving and speeding. Many of the arrests took place at road blocks mounted throughout the province. Authorities have vowed to clamp down on motorists that contravene traffic regulations. “We are serious. We are closing ranks and motorists will be arrested and members of the public must realise that when you are arrested you will be taken to the police station, you will be detained among hardened criminals and will appear in court for your transgressions,” says Director of the Road Traffic Inspectorate Directorate Victor Chetty. Click below for more on the story: 