Families, who were evacuated from McGregor and surrounding areas in the Langeberg Municipality in the Western Cape on Tuesday because of a fire in the area, have returned to their homes. Fire services in the Cape Winelands say the strong winds which have been fuelling the fire and posing a threat to properties have died down. Fire Commander, Piet du Plessis, says two houses at the foot of the mountain were damaged by smoke. Du Plessis however says the fire is not yet under control and is still burning in the direction of Stormsvlei near the N2 in the Swellendam area. He says they have 15 fire fighting vehicles, 33 firefighters and 48 volunteers on the scene. About 20 hectares of vegetation have thus far been destroyed. St Francis Bay fires contained The raging fires at St Francis Bay in the Eastern Cape have mostly been contained. Fire fighters are hoping the wind will subside and not pick up later  causing flare ups. The fire has so far completely destroyed 12 houses and damaged 20 others. Residents started damping down their thatched roof houses earlier in the day as a nearby bush fire raged. However, a gale force wind caused the fire to spread into the town. Residents had to flee with belongings they could carry with them. “The fire is under control, with the help of various organisations. We are now busy dousing down. Gas cylinders were cooled down or put in swimming pools, there is no danger. The only problem we have now is the people that flock here hindering us to get to the affected houses in streets to be doused,” says Fire Commander Chief,  Godfrey Gelderbloem. Damage of millions of rand has been caused, no casualties have been reported. Six years ago, 89 thatched roof houses were destroyed in a fire in the town. In the Western Cape, residents of McGregor and surrounding areas in the Langeberg Municipality have been asked to evacuate their homes due to a fire that is burning in the area. Cape Winelands Fire Commander, Piet du Plessis, says the fire is currently burning high up in the Riviersonderend Mountains. “We’re fighting this fire in the Riviersonderend Berge and the fire’s running towards Stormsvlei and a portion of it is burning back slowly towards the McGregor area. It is within the Cape Winelands District Municipality’s area. This fire is fanned by a very strong wind. On some of the properties we have asked the people to leave, to evacuate. We are also assisted by the police service to assist with the evacuation at this point in time,” says Du Plessis. Du Plessis says two houses at the foot of the mountain were damaged by smoke. He however says the fire is not yet under control and is still burning in the direction of Stormsvlei near the N2 in the Swellendam area. He says they have 15 fire fighting vehicles, 33 firefighters and 48 volunteers on the scene. About 20 hectares of vegetation have thus far been destroyed. Watch a related video: 