Angry residents of Thabong, Welkom in the Free State have confronted Police Minister Bheki Cele about their crime ridden area. The Police Minister’s visit resulted in the arrest of five illegal immigrants on Friday. Police also confiscated mine dust. Cele says they will deal with corrupt policemen. “We urge community to report police who are working with criminals. Not all police are corrupt but we are not afraid to take action against rotten cops we are committed to clean police service,” says Cele. Cele visited Welkom as part of addressing crime incidents in the country during this festive season. Welkom has become one of Free State crime infested towns. The G hostel, notorious for being a den for criminal’s residents complained to the minister saying the police are failing to protect them and arrest criminals. They accuse police of colluding with criminals. “Police are working with criminals. Criminals knew that Bheki Cele is coming because corrupt police gave them information. We hear the sound of guns at night now we live in fear. Crime is high in welkom so we are appealing for minister to intervene,” says one of the residents. The minister officially opened a satellite police station in Wesselbron, an area known to be a playground for gang violence. Watch related video  Meanwhile, Cele says he’s worried about the high number of drinking spots in the Northern Cape. He was speaking in Kimberley during the festive season anti-crime operation. The Police Minister visited malls, taxi ranks and drinking spots across Kimberley where he interacted with residents. Some residents voiced out their concerns and requested consistent visibility of police officers. Cele says he has found crime in the Northern Cape to be lower than in other provinces… “I’ve looked at the crime stats, they’re quite low, murder itself it’s quite low. The only problem I have there’s high number of shebeens and high number of taverns, we’re going to them to check if they comply and those who have licences, do they have under 18s and if they do, shut them down and do they close at the proper time and not at 4 in the morning but also to make sure that people that enjoy there, they behave themselves.” #PoliceMinistry Minister of Police, #BhekiCele addressing the parade in Northern Cape – ‘all criminals are the enemy of the State, remember to always squeeze the space and oxygen for criminals’ #FightingCrime #CrimeMustFall #SaferFestiveSeason ME pic.twitter.com/YUq35832zj — SA Police Service (@SAPoliceService) December 22, 2018 