As the sole African country with a permanent seat at the G20, President Cyril Ramaphosa says he feels a responsibility to the entire continent to champion African causes and not just the national interest. He was speaking to the SABC at the summit in Argentina, where he has also called for an end to protectionism and urged his fellow leaders not to forget about the developing world. Ramaphosa has joined the G20 world leaders in agreeing to reforming the World Trade Organization. European officials say the draft communique will be released at the conclusion of the two-day meeting which ends in Buenos Aires later today. However, the communique will still need to be endorsed by member nations. “Through this G20 we able to set rules on how the world economy should function, rules on how the growth of the world economy should be regulated. The finances of the world. But this time round more importantly it was seeking to build consensus on important issues that have an impact on people around the world.” Watch President Ramaphosa’s interview with SABC Correspondent Kate Fisher:  Threat of populism and protectionism Meanwhile, President Ramaphosa has warned of the threat of populism and protectionism to the global world order. He was speaking as he chaired his final meeting of the BRICS nations before the presidency moves to Brazil, on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Argentina. Taking his place among the rest of the world’s wealthiest nations, Ramaphosa had a warning for some of them. “In the economic sphere as we note that the unilateral tendencies seem to be gaining traction we should uphold the principles of working together, cooperation and also multilateralism,” he expressed. In a statement ahead of his departure for Buenos Aires, the Presidency said it views the meeting as an opportunity to advance global governance reforms and attract new investment to South Africa. Ramaphosa’s message for the world’s leading developed economies meeting at the G20, is that South Africa is open for business. Even as President Ramaphosa warns against protectionism, the Chinese and American Presidents are preparing for the next round in their trade dispute. That meeting is due to take place over dinner on Saturday night. The US, China trade relations look set to eclipse almost everything else at the G20 summit. But whatever happens here when Mr Trump meets Mr Xi, there’s no doubt it will affect every nation – including South Africa, but President Ramaphosa will be holding bilateral meetings of his own with an aim to strengthen relations with other countries whilst presenting South Africa as an investment destination and trading partner. 