There have been 1067 disciplinary cases and 64 dismissals at power utility, Eskom. A further 288 personnel have been suspended without pay, 321 received written warnings, 69 were found not to be guilty, while two are receiving counselling. The DA’s Natasha Mazzone says they’re calling for heads to roll over the massive corrupt practices. “What we require as parliament is a full tale from the Eskom board of the names, charges and where they have been found guilty. What’s the guilt charges were against Eskom and we also require what levels of management and what position they hold within Eskom and then if any of these places prove to be criminal in nature if that re theft, or involved in corruption. We need to know that Eskom has taken one step further for full accountability and reported it to police so that the national prosecuting authority can certainly hold these people to book. Simply losing your job or resigning doesn’t send a strong enough message to those who want to steal from RSA fiscals.” Mazzone says those who are found to be looting Eskom must pay back the money. “Absolutely every single cent that was taken from Eskom needs to be paid. In fact we need to remember as South Africans that Eskom belongs to each and every one of us so if money has been looted and stolen. That’s theft of every South African’s money. The money must be paid back and people must be held criminally liable where necessary.” Parliament’s Ad Hoc committee probing corruption at Eskom has recommended criminal charges against some of the former board and executive members of the parastatal.  Parliament’s inquiry into corruption at Eskom The power utility has been embroiled in controversy with allegations that it’s one of the institutions that were targeted by individuals, who were central in state capture. The organisation, which has asked for bailouts from the government, has been responsible for what has become known as load shedding. These are rolling blackouts to avert a total collapse of the power grid. While these are ironically meant to help keep the lights on, the blackouts have a negative impact on the economy. Parliament had its own inquiry about mismanagement and corruption at Eskom. The inquiry recommended that 10 witnesses, all former senior employees at the power utility, who presented conflicting evidence before Parliament, be called by the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Parliament wants the witnesses to shed more light on state capture allegations at Eskom during their tenure. They include former board chairpersons Zola Tsotsi and Ben Ngubane, former interim chairperson, Zethembe Khoza, former CEO Brian Molefe, former acting CEOs – Sean Maritz and Matshela Koko – former CFO Anoj Singh, as well as other former board members. 