National and provincial government have expressed sadness at the death of Community Safety, Security and Liaison Department spokesperson, Joseph Mabuza. He died in a hit-and-run accident on Sunday on the N4 toll road in Hectorspruit, east of Malalane in Mpumalanga. The incident happened shortly after Mabuza had conducted a live interview with SABC News on the traffic congestion at the Lebombo Border Post between South Africa and Mozambique. Mabuza died after his motorbike collided with a vehicle which made a u-turn on the N4 toll road in Hectorspruit. Government has applauded Mabuza’s contribution for road safety, saying he was not only an asset to the Mpumalanga government, but to the entire nation. Family spokesperson, Hlengiwe Dludlu, says the family is devastated. “We believe that the support that we are receiving from the honourable MEC, the Safety Department and all other Mpumalanga provincial government departments, the media and the local municipality. It gives us hope and strength to go through this very difficult time. When we received the message we were all shocked. It is difficult to believe. At the end of the day, we have to accept it. It has happened and we give everything to God.” Police have launched a manhunt for the driver of the vehicle that was involved in the crash that killed Mabuza. The driver left the scene after the crash. MEC for Community Safety, Security, Pat Ngomane, says their investigation indicates that the driver is a Swati national. “We are going to try our level best – even if is in Swaziland – because there are some allegations that he fled to Swaziland, but even if he is in Swaziland or Mozambique we are going to work with the authorities of those countries. We will try our level best because where he was living we know and we were shown the place. We are going to follow the trace.” Transport Minister Blade Nzimande has sent his condolences to the Mabuza family. Deputy President David Mabuza also expressed sadness at the passing of Joseph Mabuza. Speaking during a handover of houses and Christmas gifts in Barberton, Mpumalanga, the Deputy President has said that the country has lost an ambassador of road safety. “We have groomed this young man for a very long time. Ever since I started working for this provincial government he has always been there communicating.” The family says a memorial service for Joseph Mabuza will be held on Thursday at the Communion Church in Mbombela. Watch the videos below for more on the story: 