Women and Men Against Child Abuse says the state has failed children who were allegedly sexually abused by the former patrol guard at AB Xuma Primary School in Soweto. The High Court in Johannesburg on Wednesday found Johannes Molefe not guilty on all the charges of sexual assault. Founder of Women and Men Against Child Abuse’s Miranda Jordan, says it was heart breaking to see Molefe walk free, not because he did not commit the crime, but because of the errors committed by the state in the case. She says the children and their families have been let down by gross incompetence. “We are extremely disappointed and we are extremely upset and I definitely believe that investigating officers need to be brought to task in this case. We believe that there were huge mistakes made in this case by the very people on the part of the state that should have brought evidence that could have brought a successful conviction. We feel that basically we may have watched a child abuser walking away today. “ Parents to appeal judgment Phindile Sinye, who speaks on behalf of the parents of the learners, says they want to appeal as they believe the court focused on the mistakes made in the process and not on actual crimes committed against the children. “The parents are devastated by the court’s decision. Even during the case there were a lot of discrepancies done by the police. Police were very negligent in handling the case. We even raised this with the SAPS to say there were many discrepancies. We’re not surprised by the verdict because of the negligence of the police.” Meanwhile the Gauteng Department of Education says educators need to be better trained on how to handle situations of sexual abuse and rape of learners. “The judge was very clear on a comedy of errors that was committed by the police, teddy bear clinic and our teachers and hence we are saying it’s important for us to invoke processes where we are going to train our educators on how to manage cases like this because taking learners as the judge said putting them in the same classroom and asking them questions, there’s no privacy and there’s a sense of them wanting to influence each other,” says Department spokesperson Steve Mabona. Molefe, who worked at the school as a scholar patrol guard, was arrested in October last year after several learners told teachers that he had raped and sexually assaulted them. He was put on trial for three counts of rape and 11 of sexual assault. Molefe’s family says they are relieved that he has finally been cleared of all charges. His sister Mina Buthelezi says her family members can now move on with their lives. “I’m very happy because this case has dragged on for too long. I didn’t believe he committed the crime but sometimes I would doubt him thinking maybe he did it, because he was at school. I was so frustrated and hurt. I’m actually going to have a good sleep today and maybe my blood pressure will stabilise. I’ve been so stressed since last year.” Sashin Naidoo and Thabile Mbhele 