Former African National Congress Treasurer-General Mendi Msimang will be cremated at the Pretoria West crematorium on Saturday morning. His ashes will be handed to the family after an official funeral service to be held at the Revival Christian Church in Lynwood in Pretoria East. Mendi Msimang was this week remembered by different speakers at various memorial services held in Pretoria and Johannesburg for the selfless role he played to enhance the work of the party during his tenure. Some described him as an “honest man” who put the governing party’s financial systems in order. He was one of the country’s first ambassadors to the United Kingdom in 1994. Msimang, the husband to the late health Minister Manto Msimang passed away earlier this week after suffering from cancer. He was 89. The Presidency has accorded him category one special official funeral.  In recognition of his contribution President Cyril Ramaphosa declared that he would be buried with the honours of a Special Official Funeral which will take place on Saturday. On Wednesday the Department of International relations paid tribute to its envoy that had served in London from 1995 to 1988. Minister Lindiwe Sisulu said, “I would like to extract the key lessons what we can learn from his life of service to the ANC the people of South Africa and to humanity he served our people and the ANC with profound loyalty he served our people with sincerity and singular determination he served our people and the ANC with utter humility he served our people and the ANC with love, passion and compassion and he had enough love for all of us.” The ANC also paid homage to the man who had served as its Treasurer general in a memorial held on Thursday. Former President Kgalema Montlanthe said ”Uncle Mendi will take all the tickets for the day and keep them over the weekend and then Madiba says on Monday he will bring all the monies to the last penny. And so Madiba felt that uncle Mendi was most trustworthy when it came to the finances of the organisation.”  