The owner of a game farm, where a worker was killed by a giraffe outside Bela-Bela in Limpopo, says the person loved animals. Game farmer Kobus Daniels says Silas Moiloa probably miscalculated the animal’s warnings displays. Moiloa died after being kicked by a giraffe bull on Saturday. Daniels says the victim was oblivious to the danger. “It is very sad that this actually happened because he loves animals and I believe he didn’t believe that this animal would hurt him. What he didn’t understand at the time or he made a mistake is that he just went too close in spite of him knowing that it is not the right time to go. But I think we all make mistakes sometimes and I believe that because he loves animals so much, I just did not think that he didn’t think the animal would hurt him.” Moiloa loved animals Bela-Bela local Silas Moiloa had been working at the Thandile Country Lodge for more than five years. He was known as someone who loved animals, especially horses. On the day he met his unexpected death, 49-year old Moiloa was planning to feed the animal. His colleague and friend Daniel Mabilo says the animal kicked Moiloa as he apparently getting closer to it. “We used to spend a lot of time together, on the day he died, we were working around the kraal, then we saw a giraffe, Moiloa approached it and I warned him that it looked dangerous, as soon as he came close to the animal, it kicked him on his lower abdomen, then he fell against his back and died.” The owner of a game farm, Kobus Daniel also says the deceased loved animals. Daniel suspects that Moiloa had probably miscalculated the animal’s warning signs of imminent danger. Moiloa died from his wounds after being kicked by a giraffe bull this past Saturday. Daniel says the victim might have encroached the animal space. “It is very sad that this actually happened because he loves animals and I believe he didn’t believe that this animal would hurt him what he didn’t understand at the time or he made a mistake is that he just went too close in spite of him knowing that it is not the right time to go but I think we all make mistakes sometimes and I believe that because he loves animals so much I just did not think that he didn’t think the animal would hurt him.” Moiloa will be laid to rest this coming weekend.