His Majesty King Letsie has embarked on a massive cabinet reshuffle, through the advice of his Prime Minister, Thomas Thabane. This includes the appointment of new Ministers and a Deputy Ministers. Among the new appointments is a surprise appointment of the Secretary General of the main opposition party, Democratic Congress, who has confirmed that he will soon be crossing the floor to ruling All Basotho Congress. A total of seven changes to government has been announced. “I still respect that to date, they still have respect and faith in me, so I’m happy. It’s a privilege for the ministry to have two people that will work together and bring changes to Lesotho,” says Deputy Minister of Public Works and Transport, Mokherane Tsatsanyane. But, a huge blow goes to the main opposition party.  A disgruntled Democratic Congress Secretary General has been appointed as a cabinet minister. Lesotho minister of tourism, environment and culture,  Semano Sekatle says “I became eventually uncomfortable, and then I decided to leave.” A long serving Party Executive mulls being side-lined in key decision making processes within the party  – holding clandestine meetings which cost a lot of unhappiness within the party. On the question: To your constituency, don’t you think it’s betrayal? He replied: No, I don’t think so. When I was elected, I was elected with a ticket to ensure that there is development to my constituency, and that is the purpose why I’m in parliament…and then, if I’m parliament and they reinforce me as a minister, then I will be able to do exactly what I was expected to do. Sekatle is the third member from DC to jump ship, and he says others might follow. “There are many other people who have become uncomfortable within the party. So I’m definitely sure that they will….my wife!!! hopefully, I don’t know…but yes…no!!” It’s early Christmas for the ministers who are coming into power for the first time. But, it is the swapping of Mr. Semano Sekatle that caught many by surprise. Him moving from the Democratic Congress to the now ruling ABC is still yet to be seen how it is going to change or shape the politics of Lesotho in the near future. 