Former President Jacob Zuma‘s outspoken son, Edward, says the Human Rights Commission should investigate the use of leg irons on Duduzane Zuma during his appearance at the Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg on Monday. Edward was speaking in an exclusive interview with the SABC. It is not clear at this stage if he will lodge a complaint with the HRC. Dudzane Zuma faces charges of corruption – among other things – regarding the alleged attempt to bribe then deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas. He’s denied any wrongdoing. Scuffles outside the Randburg Magistrate’s court Meanwhile, scuffles broke out between members of Black First Land First (BLF) and a senior member of AfriForum outside the Randburg Magistrate’s court. This after several media houses tried to interview the lobby group’s CEO Kallie Kriel. The fracas occurred shortly after Duduzane, appeared briefly in the dock. The case in which he faces two charges of culpable homicide and an alternative of negligent driving was postponed to August 23rd. Zuma is accused of negligently causing the deaths of taxi commuters Phumzile Dube and Nanki Mashaba in a 2014 crash. Former President Jacob Zuma also arrived to support his son, but did not get out of his VIP vehicle. “Sir the case against you is postponed to the 23rd of August at 08:30 court number three. You are warned if you don’t appear a warrant for your arrest will be issued against you,” says Magistrate Heidi Barnard. The postponement is to allow the defence to study the case against Zuma. “They have already demonised him. They have already pronounced him guilty, and they have already used his association in business with the Gupta family to demonise him. And as black South Africans we are saying this is unfair. If we say that all are equal before the law, surely we should see this in the way that Duduzane Zuma,” says BLF deputy president, Zanele Lwana.” Both the Dube and Mashaba families were absent.  SABC reporter Chriselda Lewis on Duduzane Zuma’s cuppable homicide case…  