A faction of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Dr Kenneth Kaunda region of the North West has lambasted the regional conference that took place on Saturday in Wolmaransstad, and says it was bogus. The faction on Sunday held a separate consultative conference in Klerksdorp. ANC Provincial Executive Committee convener in the region Aaron Motswana said on Saturday that they were working towards bringing unity in the region after a new leadership was elected. On Saturday, a regional elective conference was held in Wolmaransstad, with the blessing of the ANC Provincial Executive Committee, led by Supra Mahumapelo. It elected the Regional Executive Council led by Zanele Mphafudi.  However, a day later the conference’s legitimacy is being challenged, by those who term it a bogus conference attended by delegates from bogus branches. ANC parliamentarian at the national legislature, who is also the former ANC Provincial Chairperson, Nono Maloyi says they have lodged disputes with the national leadership of the ANC, hence the refusal to accept the results of Saturday’s elective conference. “These comrades decided to proceed with the conference, a conference constituted by people who were not elected by branches and that is why comrades are characterising that conference as a bogus regional conference because it was attended by bogus delegates.” Alliance partners shared the same sentiment. South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) Provincial Chairperson, Packet Seaketso says there is a need to save the ANC from the administration of the current PEC. “We need to find a way comrades to assist each other, to save the ANC from these thieves.” South African Communist Party Provincial Chairperson, Smuts Matshe says;” For this election process, we are not going to allow people to run the election campaign as if it is their private company. It can’t be allowed but secondly, people that are having a cloud hanging over their heads please man, they must not make life difficult for the rest of the alliance.” Meanwhile, while leading the regional conference on Saturday, ANC PEC convener in the region Aaron Motswana said the leadership elected at the conference will work towards advancing unity in the region. “They should become leadership that is going to unite this region going forward, a  leadership that will focus on challenges facing this particular region, municipalities, service delivery, governance issues , improving the lives of the people.” Just last week, two other factions held parallel regional conferences in the Ruth Segomotsi Mompati region. This was despite the consistent calls for unity.