Chinese President Xi Jingpin has announced that China will host the first ever China International Import Expo in November. Xi Jingpin was speaking at the 10th BRICS Summit currently under way at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg. “China will host the first China International Import Expo in Shanghai this November, in a major support of trade liberalisation and to open its market. The Expo will serve as a new platform to the world to access the Chinese market,” says Jingpin. Jingpin says more than 130 countries and regions and more than 2800 companies have confirmed participation. “And over 150 000 buyers in and outside China are expected to attend this fare. I welcome business leaders from other BRICS and African countries to attend the expo,” said Jingpin to a rousing applause. The Chinese President took to the podium after the BRICS Chair Cyril Ramaphosa’s speech in which he sang praises of, among other things, intra-BRICS cooperation over the last decade. “Intra-BRICS cooperation has been gaining momentum in areas such as finance, agriculture, trade, combating transnational crime, science and technology, health, education, security and academic dialogue,” says Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa, however, lamented some of the challenges faced by the multilateral trading system. “We are concerned by the rise in unilateral measures that are incompatible with World Trade Organization rules and are worried about the impact of these measures, especially on developing countries. These developments call for thorough discussion on the role of trade in promoting sustainable development and inclusive growth.” All roads lead to Sandton for BRICS It’s a fairly cold afternoon in Johannesburg, clear with periodic clouds, where delegates from across the globe have gathered. Journalists from a myriad of media houses all over the country can be seen roaming all over in and around the Sandton Convention Centre. Broadcast vans from local and foreign media broadcasters have lined the Sandton streets, with security provided mainly by the South African Police Service and the Johannesburg Metro Police tight.