Ousted Sol Plaatje mayor, Mangaliso Matika, refuses to vacate his office. He says council procedures were not followed when a Democratic Alliance (DA) led vote of no confidence was passed against him on Wednesday. Matika says only the African National Congress (ANC) can decide his fate. He intends approaching the courts to apply for a declaratory order. Dubbed an arrogant mayor in his response to the people’s demands it led to a near shutdown of Kimberley. Over the past two weeks violent protests engulfed the city with residents calling for the mayor to step down. Community leader, Tumelo Mosikare says: “If they continue to defy what the community wants then the community will fully take control of this city, and there won’t be turning back.” Matika remains defiant.  “Yes, I am still here and the acting speaker is still here. We are just disappointed with the events of yesterday (Wednesday) that took place in these chambers, where certain councillors convened a so-called meeting in trying to put a vote of no confidence in the mayor and in the acting speaker.” The ANC says Matika will stay in his position until an investigation by COGHSTA is completed. ANC Northern Cape secretary, Deshi Ngxanga says: “If people have problems with comrades there, especially when they allege that corruption is taking place we created a platform at Sol Plaatje to deal with the issues of corruption and all the other allegations that were levelled against comrades of the ANC who are working there.” Meanwhile, an acting mayor has been elected. The newly-elected Acting Mayor, Pule Thabane says: “All those things that the law required within the framework of law, we have done that. Hence I’m standing here to tell you and even tell the public Pule Mike Thabane is the new mayor.” The Chief Financial Officer and Municipal Manager have also been placed on precautionary suspension. A massive shut down planned for Thursday was called off – after news of the mayor’s departure. But now it’s back to square one, with more marches anticipated. WATCH BELOW: 