Sub-Saharan Africa is facing a Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) paradox as a region attracting the lowest share of global net FDI, yet offering the highest rate of return. So says a leading United Nations (UN) economist who has penned an article aimed at addressing this contradiction. Sub-Saharan Africa attracted just 1.87% of global FDI between 2010 and 2016 with a view emerging that as a percentage that number should be above 10% at a minimum. With the now familiar refrain that Africa is the next big growth pole, a number of bottlenecks remain including attracting comparatively low FDI over the last decade. Dr Ayodele Odusola is the Chief Economist for the UN Development Programmes Bureau for Africa. “FDI is considered to be a paradox in Africa because conventional theory shows that investment goes to where the rate of return is highest and Africa is considered to be the highest of all the regions of the world, generating over 11% as a rate of return compared to a world average of 7%. But if you look at the volume of FDI in Africa in terms of net, it’s just about 1.7%. ” He points out that despite the region achieving the highest rate of return at around 11.4% between 2006 and 2011 compared to the global average of 7.1%, Sub Saharan Africa’s net FDI stood at a mere 1.87% between 2010 and 2016. Europe comparatively attracted over 30%, East Asia and the Pacific over 26%, over 17% for North Africa and 13.25% for Latin America. “There are a number of conditions that we need to look into – and first we think with the kind of natural endowment that we have and the cheap cost of labour, that could be a major propellant for FDI, but it’s not always the case. There are a number of things which make doing business quite challenging in most African countries – the first is the issue of public capital when we talk in terms of infrastructure – road, rail, air and a host of other things. If its not strong enough, the quality of public capital in terms of infrastructure is not strong enough, it adds to the cost of production. ” Another impediment to attracting higher levels of investment is the region’s low skills base and the calibre of human capital, the quality of regulations and standards and the cost of intermediation, as Dr Odusola explains. “If you look at what is happening in most parts of the world, the lending rate is single digits, in most African countries its not only double digits, its at the high end. In Madagascar for instance it’s 60%, Malawi its about 44%, so you cant compare with a country who’s lending rate is about 5% or lower than that, so you will continue to work for the banking system if you go to banks to lend as an entrepreneur, so that’s one of the factors.” We raised the question of South Africa as the Government embarks on an aggressive investment drive over the next five years. “It’s still having a lot of challenges when it comes to the issue of quality of labour. That’s one of the areas we have to invest in (this is the skills issues), the skill issue because the SA economy is more sophisticated than the level of the educational system. What they need to do is getting those fundamentals right, you know the issue of integrity matters, once you introduce integrity it increases what you call the credit rating, once you increase integrity in procurement process in SA, definitely it’s going to increase the credit rating of the country. Once you are able to do this and you ensure that the issue of corruption is reduced substantially, you’ll see the way it’  s going to increase it.” Dr Odusola pointed to pockets of excellence in the economies of Ethiopia, Rwanda and Mauritius among others calling for the region to attract the kind of FDI proportion that better reflects the highest rate of return it continues to offer the world.