Justin Snaith trained Do It Again took home the line honours at the 2018 Vodacom Durban July on Saturday at Greyville Racecourse, as the experienced trainer claimed four of the top five spots in the R 4,25 million main race including the first three runners past the finishing post. As always it was a thrilling race with the final furlongs narrowing the contest down to two horses as Made To Conquer’s iconic jockey Jeff Lloyd desperately searched for a maiden July win after he announced he was to retire at the age of 57. The race went to the wire with Do It Again giving the bookies something of a surprise in taking the win with pre-race favourite African Night Sky coming home in fifth. Elusive Silver, also trained by Snaith, completed the top three while Paul Peter trained Majestic Mambo finished in fourth. Revellers, punters and fashionistas were entertained throughout the day at Greyville with fashion taking centre stage for most of the mornings action at the Galaxy Stage at the Lakes. Young Durban University of Technology student Georgina Brink won the coveted Vodacom Durban July Young Designer Award, presented by Durban Fashion Fair. In second and third were fellow DUT students Andile Nsele and Nhlosenhle Cele. Following the pre-raceday fashion awards it was the turn of those that arrived on Saturday morning hoping for a shot at winning some great prizes and the designers that showcased their wears did not disappoint. In the Classic Racewear – Men category it was Nkosi Mhlungu who took home the first prize, followed by M-Shade in second and Madelain Clark finished third. The competitive Classic Racewear – Women division was won by ecstatic designer Zandile Maphumulo with Martin Steenkamp in second place and third went to Themsile Phungula. In the Exceptional Hat and Fascinator contest, Judan Naidoo had three entries in the competition and managed to get one into the top three, taking first place from Precious Nkuna and Andile Masondo in second and third place. The Most Striking Couple prize went to habitual runner-up Brenda Warring, who finally managed to win the ultimate prize. Finishing in second and third were Zandile Maphumulo and Pregasen Naidoo. – Gameplan Media PROVISIONAL RESULTS – 2018 VODACOM DURBAN JULY 1.Do It Again (Anton Marcus)
2.Made to Conquer (Jeffrey Lloyd)
3.Elusive Silver (B Faydherbe)
4.Majestic Mambo (Callan Murray)
5.African Night Sky (Grant van Niekerk)
6.Rocket Countdown (Stuart Randolph) The Vodacom Durban July Young Designer Award 1.Georgina Brink (DUT)
2.Andile Nsele (DUT)
3.Nhlosenhle Cele (DUT) The Vodacom Durban July Raceday Fashion Awards Classic Racewear – Men
1.Nkosi Mhlungu
2.M-Shade
3.Madelain Clark Classic Racewear – Women
1.Zandile Maphumulo
2.Martin Steenkamp
3.Themsile Phungula Exceptional Fascinator or Hat
1.Judan Naidoo
2.Precious Nkuna
3.Zandile Masondo Most Striking Couple
1.Brenda Warring (Liandi/Wayne)
2.Zandile Mapumulo (Zolani/Mmamello)
3.Pregasen Naidoo (George/Goodness)