Zimbabwe’s Electoral Commission says it’s all systems go ahead of the July 30 poll with just a week to go before the country’s make or break general elections. Leaving nothing to chance, the ZEC is confident as it received 97% of the election budget. The police are also on standby to maintain law and order. Assistant Commissioner Erasmus Makodza says: “Police officers shall not interfere with the elections and they will maintain public order during elections.” At least 10 000 polling stations have been set up throughout the country to ensure smooth voting. Meanwhile, MDC Alliance presidential candidate Nelson Chamisa said he would be meeting with the Electoral Commission on Tuesday to address concerns about the design of the ballot paper. Zimbabwe will hold its first post-Robert Mugabe elections with 23 candidates vying for the presidency.   Transformed ZANU-PF Zimbabwe’s Foreign Minister, Major-General Sibusiso Moyo says the ruling ZANU-PF has transformed itself into a party that respects the rule of law since the overthrow of the former President Robert Mugabe. Moyo says before Mugabe was ousted last November, the country was heading for anarchy. “ZANU-PF has gone through a metamorphosis of cleansing itself and renewing itself and therefore whilst it’s got an unchallenged past of liberating this country. It has renewed itself to position itself as the party of the future.” Zim students express mixed feelings Zimbabwean students studying at University of Fort Hare in the Eastern Cape have expressed mixed feelings about the upcoming general elections in their home country. The students will not be able to cast their votes as they are not physically in Zimbabwe. The front runners are the current President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zanu-PF and MDC ‘s Nelson Chamisa. Students Mbekezelo Hlabano and Loyd Dube say the elections will not be free and fair. “With the discrepancies of the voters roll, the unfair state media which is reporting biasedly, surely we cannot expect free and fair outcome.” Another student says, “People will vote for who they want. As you know we have record of elections being rigged, elections being stolen. So I think people will vote for who they want, but ZEC is the one which decided. And we know it is controlled by the military and the ruling party.” 