The United Nations Human Rights office has welcomed the widening of the democratic space in Zimbabwe ahead of historic elections on Monday and called on all stakeholders to ensure the poll is held in an environment where the rule of law is respected. The Spokesperson for the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights expressed concern at the number of reports, particularly in rural areas, of voter intimidation, threats of violence, and harassment. The human rights office has called on authorities, political parties and their supporters to ensure that the elections are not marred by such acts. With historic polls just days away, the first in the post Robert Mugabe era mixed reaction from the UN as it welcomes the broad sentiment in the country but warns against some of the pitfalls. Elizabeth Throssell is Spokesperson for the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. “We remain concerned however at the increasing number of reports, particularly in some rural areas, of voter intimidation, threats of violence, harassment and coercion, including people being forced to attend political rallies. There has also been the worrying use of disparaging language against female political candidates.” The frontrunners in this election are President Emmerson Mnangagwa of ZANU-PF who replaced nonagenarian Mugabe who forced from office in 2017 and MDC opposition leader Nelson Chamisa who replaced Morgan Tsvangirai after his death in February. “We note the signing of the peace pledge by the political parties on 26 June, under the auspices of the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission. We welcome their commitment to promote a climate of peace and tolerance, accept the results of the elections or challenge the results through the due process of law.” “The run-up to elections previously in Zimbabwe was very different, very much marred by violence. From what we have been seeing, what we have been monitoring, there has not been that scale of violence. In fact, civil society has spoken to, have expressed this cautious optimism. It’s far from perfect, but there are encouraging signs.” Click video below: 