Social Development authorities in KwaZulu-Natal have confirmed that sexual abuse of patients at the Durban and Coastal Mental Health centre exists. This follows SABC News investigations exposing alleged abuses of patients there. Government now wants a fully-fledged probe into the facility. “Stop the rot” was what the families of patients at the Durban and Mental Health Centre are calling for. They have accused government of turning a blind eye on alleged abuses at the facility. The centre receives funding from the departments of Health and Social Development. “The investigation is on the allegation of governance and on the issues of how the organization is run and how our monies are used. When I saw the story on TV for the first time I spoke to the executive director and he told me that the team is already in the centre,” says KZN Social Development MEC, Weziwe Thusi. Ntando Dlamini’s family is angry. Last year, the 24-year old died at the Durban and Coastal Mental Health centre. The family blames staff negligence for his death and it says government is also guilty. “The department of Health and the department of Social Development fund the institution but do they ever do any oversight visits? Do they monitor how their monies are used? If they don’t do follow ups they might as well close down these places or else that money is not being put to proper use,” says the victim’s relative Jabulani Ngcobo. SABC News spoke to some current and former employees at the centre. They have confirmed that acts of misconduct at the facility are hidden from stakeholders, particularly government. “There are reports done especially to the two departments on a monthly basis but even if the truth is written on the reports, before it gets to the department management will change it. They look at the report and decide what they want to be written in it,” says a whistleblower. In a statement the facility’s head Gita Harie says they will fully co-operate with the Task Team appointed by government. But says the facility is not prepared to be subjected to what she calls a trial by the media. Watch related video below: 