Parts of Makhanda in the Eastern Cape have just two months’ supply of water left. Residents want a government solution. Dam levels that supply the city’s west are below 30%. Those most affected live on the city’s eastern side. They receive their water only after the western side has been serviced. This is compounded by the poor quality of the water. E coli was discovered in water tested two months ago. “When the water began to get dirty she started to get eczema. That’s why I said it’s the water and the doctor told me it’s the water. She has been drinking and when she started with these skin ailments I had to keep her at home. She never went to crèche because she had severe skin problems,” says an anonymous resident. The Makhanda municipality says while it’s safe to drink, it has to be boiled first. Director Makhanda Municipality Municipal Infrastructure Dali Mlenzana says: “I can drink it now, its drinkable, you can bring me a big cup of that water from anywhere in Grahamstown I will drink it. Because I know that water is safe because we tested it in our plants before we sent it out. Residents must boil the water though because we did find ecoli but we advised residents to boil water because we can’t be sure if there are still traces.” This is not something Nomonde Tshede who lives in Joza Township is prepared to swallow. She says she cannot afford to boil water every day for consumption. “I don’t have electricity. My electricity is 0.35 now. How can I boil water when I do not have electricity? And I do not have money. I am not working; I am receiving grant. If I boil water now, I will have to sleep in the dark, it’s really bad,” says Tshede. Ageing infrastructure remains the biggest challenge. Deputy Minister of Water and Sanitation Pam Tshwete says: “The capacity of pipes is not enough for everyone in Makana so we are saying we need to look at that. We need more money to do that and as I said we are working with the minister of local government to assist us also the province to assist us.” National government has urged municipalities in drought stricken areas to utilise natural springs. WATCH BELOW: 