International Relations Minister Lindiwe Sisulu says although BRICS leaders are concerned of the effects that a potential full-blown international trade war could have on their countries, the topic will not dominate discussions during this year’s summit. Fears of a trade war have been mounting across the globe after US President Donald Trump imposed 25% tariffs on 34-billion-dollars of Chinese products, drawing a tit-for-tat response from Beijing. China’s President Xi Jinping and India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi are due to attend the BRICS summit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Since taking office, President Xi has overseen efforts to expand Chinese influence in Africa. Addressing the media at the Sandton Convention Centre, north of Johannesburg, Sisulu says these trade wars will not be centre discussions during the summit. “Will trade wars be a dominant issue around BRICS? I think that if there are any trade wars, they are outside of BRICS. BRICS countries would obviously be concerned about the tariffs that have been placed on particular exports, especially where we are concerned, but I don’t know if that would be a dominant factor at all. “We have created for ourselves business forums where we invited the business forum to engage with both President Xi Jinping and Ramaphosa on the possibilities on how we can enhance our business opportunities using the space that we have,” says Sisulu.  SA ready to  host BRICS Summit Government says it’s ready to host the successful BRICS Summit starting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. The leaders of the five major emerging economies will converge at the Sandton Convention Centre to bolster intra-BRICS trade. At least eight Africa leaders including among others Rwanda’s Paul Kagame, Uganda’s Yoweri Museveni and Macky Sall of Senegal have been invited. President Cyril Ramaphosa will have numerous bilateral meetings with its counterparts starting with Chinese President Xi Jinping on his state visit. The 2018 BRICS Summit in South Africa takes place under the theme – BRICS in Africa : Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution. And Pretoria says it will use the event as a platform to showcase Africa to BRICS countries with the aim of attracting investment and creating the much needed jobs for Africa’s one billion people with at least eight African leaders having confirmed their attendance. Deputy Minister of International Relations Luwellyn Landers says the three day meeting will benefit the rest of the continent. 