North West MEC for Safety Mpho Motlhabane says the deaf community are the most important part of society and they need love and support at all times. He was speaking at the donation ceremony held at Wolmaransstad Hoer Skool hostel for the deaf in the North West. Motlhabane donated table tennis equipment and sanitary towels to the learners saying it is all in the name of Madiba as this month is dedicated to former President Nelson Mandela. His visit has put a smile to the face of learners at Wolmaransstad school for the deaf as he provided them some presents. He was accompanied by some traffic officials, who also share their knowledge with the learners about road safety tips. The order of the day was when the female learners where given sanitary towels and also a donation of table tennis equipment. The school went through a bad ordeal in 2015 where three learners died and others sustained injuries during a fire which gutted the girls hostel. However, Motlhabane says the occasion was meant to show love and support to the learners despite their impaired situation. He says all this is done in celebration of Madiba month. “We came to the school to show love and we believe as the department we should adhere to that what Nelson Mandela embraced to encourage these kids even in their disadvantaged state to continue focusing in education.” One of the learners Obert Moloto (speaking through an interpreter) said  he was grateful that someone had made their day very specially by donating equipment which they will cherish forever. “We thank the MEC, we thank you all for the support and if this relationship can be real and last forever. I thank you all for the teachings and motivations. We ask that you all support our teachers and I am very happy that we got nice goodies because of Mandela. We all remembering Nelson Mandela today.” Motlhabane’s visit to the school was followed by roadblock operation at the R503 road and the N12 to clamp down on taxis which do not adhere to the road safety rules.