The staging of the relative peaceful elections in Zimbabwe has emboldened some opposition leaders in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The country’s self-imposed exile business mogul and presidential hopeful Moise Katumbi will return to his home country to contest the December polls. Since attaining independence from Belgium in 1960, the DRC which is Africa’s biggest copper producer has not had a peaceful transfer of power.  The flamboyant DRC presidential aspirant Moise Katumbi is ready to return from exile and take part in the long-delayed presidential elections. According to a recent poll, the 53-year-old former governor of Congo’s copper-rich Katanga province would be the likeliest candidate to replace President Joseph Kabila, if he is allowed to compete in elections scheduled for December. Kabila’s presidential term was expected to end in November 2016, but the elections have since been postponed after the electoral commission cited financial and logistical constraints. Opposition leaders have long accused Kabila, head of state since 2001, of delaying the vote in order to retain power and change the constitution. Katumbi was in 2016 convicted in absentia for illegally selling a property, while two other investigations remain open including allegations he violated Congo’s ban on dual citizenship. He denies the allegations, describing them as politically motivated. “To create bogus charges, to say I’ve stolen a house which belonged to my brother. Lucky enough there was an investigation and I appeared in court and they suspended these charges.  So I’m going as a free man to the Congo for a peaceful election and the first transfer of power in our country,” says DRC Presidential Candidate, Moise Katumbi. Katumbi has appealed to President Cyril Ramaphosa in his capacity as the chairperson of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to encourage President Kabila to leave office peacefully. “I’m appealing to President Ramaphosa as a chair, that South Africa must go and support the candidates and peaceful elections in the country and the transfer of power.  When you are leaving office you have to feel good that,’ I’ve done my duty and let the other ones to come in’.” The former Congolese warlord and vice president Jean-Pierre Bemba is also expected back to the DRC to contest the December polls.  This is after he was acquitted in May on appeal for war crimes at the International Criminal Court at The Hague.  Katumbi says he welcomes the return of Bemba to his home country. “Bemba must come back because he got acquitted.  He must come back because we need a better Congo.  Let’s get a chance to change our country together.  Why Kabila people say Bemba or Katumbi can’t stand?? This is the time for reconciliation.” The surge of violent conflicts in eastern and central Congo have forced millions to flee to neighbouring countries like Uganda and Rwanda.  According to UN aid agencies, more than 5 million people have been driven from their homes.