The SABC has conducted the second public hearings into its editorial policy in Mpumalanga, the North West and KwaZulu-Natal. Some residents have urged the public broadcaster to focus more on improving local content. Others, however, say the SABC should ensure that action is taken against the on-air presenters who are failing to adhere to the corporation’s language policy. Residents of the North West who attended the hearing on the SABC Editorial Policy have urged the public broadcaster to ensure that local and rural stories are also covered adequately. They claim that there is an excessive focus on political stories. The residents have also raised concerns that some of the on-air presenters are failing to adhere to the public broadcaster’s language policy. In Durban, some participants have proposed that there should be an equal representation of all indigenous religious organisations at the public broadcaster. Meanwhile, in Mbombela, residents say there is still a lot more that needs to be done by the SABC when it comes to producing programmes that cater for disabled people. Nyiko Shibambo from the SABC’s Policy and Regulatory Affairs says they are satisfied with the inputs made by the residents. “The public broadcaster, the SABC must put stringent measures in place to ensure that all on-air presenters, who fail to adhere to the cooperation’s language policy, are held accountable. These are some of the views that emerged during the SABC public hearings into its editorial policy in Mahikeng, in the North West. The SABC is currently conducting the second round of hearings countrywide regarding editorial policy. Some people are concerned about what they say is the excessive focus on political stories, and neglection of local, rural stories,” says Shibambo. On Tuesday, the hearings will be held in Polokwane, Siyabuswa in Mpumalanga, and Kimberley. This new review process is aimed at ensuring that a proper consultation process takes place with the public and the various stakeholders of the SABC, and that the final policies which emanate are in line with section 6 (6) of the Broadcasting Act of No 4 of 1999. “Have your FINAL SAY, the SABC has issued the draft editorial policies for FINAL comment by interested parties following consultation with members of the public. The closing date is 31 JULY 2018. The draft editorial policies are available on the SABC Website for downloading at www.sabc.co.za/editorialpolicy or contact Call Centre at 011 714 9111 / 9797 or FAX at 011 714 4508  Hard copies are also available from all our SABC offices in the 9 Provinces.