Ethiopian airlines has resumed flights to Eritrea after 20 years. Direct air connection between the two countries was blocked after the two countries fought in 1998 and broke off diplomatic ties. The former Prime Minister of Ethiopia Hailemariam Desalegn was among the first passengers on the inaugural direct flight from Addis Ababa. The route had been blocked following two decades of tension between the two counties. The initial plan was to have only one inaugural flight however as demand for tickets rose, a second flight was added. Many Eritreans are returning home to reunite with family and friends after many years. Eritrean Ambassador to Ethiopia, Araya Desta says:”As we all know the two family members were totally cut off for more than 20 years. Obstacles that hindered and separated the peoples are now over.” Ethiopian Airlines says it is considering increasing the number of daily flights from one to three depending on demand. CEO Ethiopian Airlines,  Tewolde Gebremariam says, “The connectivity as I said before with Europe, US, Canada, South America, Middle East and Asia is designed in such a way that passengers, Eritrean travellers and tourists visiting Eritrea will arrive here in Addis early in the morning about 7 o’clock from all over the world and they will be connecting to Asmara. It is a couple of hours with a departure of 9 and 10.” Many Eritreans live in Ethiopia. While some remained when Eritrea seceded from Ethiopia in 1993, others were separated with their families during the 1998 war. Others are refugees having fled their country for various reasons. Ethiopians who watched the first flight saw this as a peace dividend. “We enjoyed so much happiness before. We lack that happiness. That is why today we gain that happiness brotherly, sisterly Eritrean can come to Ethiopia. It is so amazing,” says one Ethiopian. Another says, “The peace along with this integration will create an increase or a plus in political and social and economical activities.” The Ethiopian government has also announced that 5 bus routes will open from Addis Ababa on destinations to Eritrea. These inaugural flights are a symbol of diplomatic ties between Ethiopia and Eritrea, a relationship that leaders from both countries have promised to not only keep but strengthen with time.