Hundreds participated in the third annual Inkosi Albert Luthuli walk. The walk occurred in Groutville near Stanger, north of Durban. Albert Luthuli, who died in 1967, became the first Non-European to be awarded the Noble Peace prize in 1960. This day, 52 years ago, he walked from home to a train station. It’s alleged he was struck by a train while crossing a railway bridge. On Saturday morning hundreds of fitness enthusiasts walked the same route he did, to keep his legacy alive. “There are a lot of things that we attribute to Chief Luthuli. Besides all the bans and the suffering that he had to suffer. Remember at that time politicians were not paid. So he basically gave up his life and the wife had to look after the family,” says race organizer, Zakhele Gumede. Those who were close to him say he was interested in a healthy lifestyle. “My father, he was a person who was interested in people and enjoyed good health,” says  Dr Albertina Luthuli. The walk is also aimed at promoting social cohesion among different races. “It’s absolutely important especially at the present time when there is so many issues that South Africa is facing. Issues of crime, issues of corruption and issues of violence and so on,”  says Mahatma Gandhi’s Great-Great Daughter, Eli Gandhi. The walk was 11 kilometres, many of the participants say it was worth attempting. However, Luthuli’s family believes he would have been disappointed at the lack of leadership within the country’s political ranks. “There is no excuse for corruption; there is no excuse for unethical leadership. There is no excuse for irresponsible leadership. In so far that is concerned I think Chief Luthuli would be unhappy given the kind of person he was,” says Luthuli grandson, Mthunzi Luthuli. Luthuli is described as one of African National Congress’ (ANC) selfless leaders who put the people’s interests first. Although the walk is an isolated event, it is hoped that through it and other initiatives, Luthuli’s legacy can be kept alive.  Watch videos below:  