African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa has called on Gauteng members of the party to work harder in order for the ANC to regain its former glory. He officially opened the 13th provincial conference at St. Georges Hotel in Irene, east of Pretoria. Ramaphosa says ANC members must seriously reflect on what went wrong in the party leading to the decline in electoral support in the 2016 Local Government Elections. He did not mince his words and appealed to the 1600 delegates from across Gauteng to make sure that they work harder to rebuild the ANC. The ANC in the province will this weekend elect a new leadership, which will see Acting Provincial Chairperson, David Makhura elected as Chair unopposed. Lebohang Maile, Parks Tau and Panyaza Lesufi are contesting the Deputy Chairperson position of the ANC. Now, Ramaphosa says in the run-up to 2019’s general elections, the ANC must find ways to correct its wrongs. He says the ANC need to make sure that they perform during 2019’s elections. Ramaphosa says they are still bleeding from losing major metro municipalities during the Local Government Elections in 2016. He told the delegates that it is in the hands of a collective of comrades who have prospects of a united ANC to make sure that unity is the order of the day Ramaphosa appealed to delegates to delegates to make sure that they group themselves together for the betterment of the party. However, the build up to the 13th Gauteng Provincial Elective conference in the province has been marred by court interdicts from branches and regions in the province – demanding that it be postponed to some disputes.   ANC KZN elective conference starts In KwaZulu-Natal, courts earlier rejected attempts by aggrieved members to interdict the one taking place in Durban. Verification of delegates attending the ANC KZN elective conference has started at the Durban University of Technology. According to NEC member Nocawe Mafu the process is to ensure that only the correct and legitimate delegates are allowed to participate in the voting process. Mafu says the process will be followed by the adoption of credentials and there nomination process will then follow. Voting for all positions is expected later in the evening and results will be released Saturday morning. 