Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says his party will never shy away from disclosing who funds it. He says it is no secret that they would not have been able to register as a political party if it was not for businessman, Adriano Mazzotti. Malema says Mazzotti donated R200 000 to the EFF prior to its registration in 2014. Speaking to SABC News, Malema says the EFF would be more than willing to return the money if it is found to be proceeds of crime. “This Mazzotti money has never been taken to court and has never been found guilty to be proceeds of crime and I am on record saying – if it was declared as proceeds of crime, the EFF will be more than willing to return that money. Anyone can donate money to the EFF, but we will not accept money knowing that this is money for corruption – we try by all means to ensure that we receive donations from a credible individual.” Malema on NPA The EFF leader has weighed in on the Supreme Court of Appeal ruling on the future of suspended NPA senior executives – Advocates Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi. He says it is time that South Africans respected the rule of law. Malema’s comments follow the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeal that the High Court in Pretoria had misdirected itself when it ordered that Jiba and Mrwebi be removed from the roll of advocates. Malema says the law enforcement agencies must not play to the gallery and instead find facts by conducting proper investigations. “We will continue to make noise, particularly when we feel there is something wrong in any government office. But the Hawks and NPA must not play to the gallery. Even when we make noise, they must go and get the facts; even when they get the facts, they must let the people be treated fairly. Because you see now, when you don’t treat people fairly – you will turn them into heros and you will have yourself to blame.” EFF criticises VAT increase Malema has once again criticised the increase in Value Added Tax (VAT), saying it is a reflection of what he terms President Cyril Ramaphosa’s poor leadership. The VAT rate increased to 15% in April this year, amid the increasing fuel price. Malema says increasing VAT is a miscalculated move that has crippled the survival of the poor. “Thuma Mina should not have increased VAT. No one has sent him to go and increase VAT. The basic items that our people need for survival, we should completely take out VAT in those products. The increase of VAT was a miscalculation and all of this is happening under the over-exaggerated new dawn. Maybe they shouldn’t have called it a new dawn, they should have called it a vaseline or something else. People will see the real man behind Cyril Ramaphosa who’s obssessed with corporate and has no regard for poor people especially poor consumers.”  WATCH the full interview: 