Water authorities in the North West are unable to do their jobs because of non-payment by municipalities in the province. Sedibeng Water says it is owed more than R890 million. This emerged during a meeting between Water boards and government departments in Mahikeng recently. Residents in Itsoseng are still plagued by water shortages. They put buckets underneath empty taps in the hope of getting the precious resource. Businesses are also suffering. “Shortage of water cost me a lot because if there is no water I cannot have business I lose income. Before when there is water I used to do a lot of money. So I am struggling,” says resident Tumelo Moholoagae. The community has been struggling for nearly a decade.  “The challenge of water shortage has been here over the years and it has affected different households,” says one of the residents. A lack of funding is a contributing factor.  “The other critical issue we have is the non-payment for our services becauseto continuously provide the service we need to be funded,” says Chairperson of the Sedibeng Water Board David Dikoko. The North West Premier Job Mokgoro agrees that a proper plan for water provision is needed. “We have capacity problems in terms of the way we set up our institutions, in terms of the level of qualifications and experience of our staff. We turn to work in silos. Even before we can increase funding that is available what we need to do is to join these dots so that we have appropriate intervention to improve of water.” Minister of Water and Sanitation Gugile Nkwinti says a technical team has been tasked to consolidate a report on the water shortages in the North West. “ … this is how we are going to deal with the challenge and this is when we are going to do that. So let us agree on that, because the centre is here. When they are finished doing the work as officials they will report to the Premier and the Premier has the responsibility for media; and we will like to do that and continuously brief the people for that purpose.” National government has given the North West government three days to submit a detailed report on the shortage of water in the province. 