The African National Congress’ (ANC) head of elections, Fikile Mbalula, has criticised people who have accused former President Nelson Mandela of being a sellout. Mbalula delivered a memorial lecture in honour of Madiba at Seshego near Polokwane, Limpopo. Mbalula says many of those speaking against Mandela were not even born when the struggle stalwart spearheaded the liberation movement. He adds that Mandela galvanised support against apartheid. “Mandela formed Umkhonto We Sizwe. He also went to many other parts of the world to seek support so that apartheid could be isolated. Mandela, is the father of our nation and the father of our freedom. Nelson Mandela was the leader of the defiance campaign, the chief organiser in the 1950’s. It was also Nelson Mandela who formed the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL).” The ANC says it’s not threatened by opposition parties, especially those formed after their leaders left the ruling party. Mbalula says ANC members should campaign for next year’s general elections and not worry about opposition parties, particularly the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). “We must do our job and not worry about the EFF. Their time is coming, they will come back. They are just in fashion now. Many have left the ANC and returned or they will be in the cold. Just look at Mosiuoa Lekota  who is now saying things that don’t make sense. His political party is dying. It is the same with Bantu Holomisa, he used to be energetic in the ANC, but now he is all alone.” Mbalula has also used the platform to speak about the expropriation of land without compensation, saying it’s not true that government wants to expropriate communal land. “ANC will never take the land that belong to our people. We want land like the one at ZZ2. Land expropriation from compensation from those who own 87 percent of the land. Not those whom the land is already at their disposal and we are not chasing the communal land. Meanwhile, he has appealed to the Capricorn and Polokwane Municipalities to immediately address high electricity and water bills affecting some residents of Seshego. The issue has resulted in violent protests since the beginning of the year. 