SABC board Chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini says some progress, although minimal, is being made in the collection of TV license fees. Makhathini says the SABC has put together a comprehensive approach to improve the collection of licence fees. He says one mechanism is the expansion of what he calls a “definition of device” that a TV set owner has to pay for. Makhathini was speaking in an interview with SABC news in Parliament. “When we came to Parliament the last time, we presented a comprehensive strategy on how we are going to improve on TV license collection. We have also touched on how we are going to leverage technology and innovations to drive that. We are talking about GIS (Georgraphic Information System) enabled licences. There are a number of things that will drive the collections. In fact, it has improved a little but the reality is we also need to be honest. The last time it was increased, it was 2013 – if I am not mistaken. Currently you are paying 72 cents a day to play 18 radio stations, five TV Channels. The reality is times have moved. We also need to be honest about what it costs us to deliver on the public mandate as the SABC.” Meanwhile, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says a culture of not paying TV license fees is contributing to the SABC’s financial woes. She was speaking in an interview with SABC News in Parliament. The public broadcaster recently asked Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Communications to look into reviewing the TV license fee regulations. The SABC wants the license fee to be seen as payment for signal distribution access. It says if it cannot pay Sentech for signal distribution, this will not only affect its television channels but all Radio stations will be off air. Mokonyane is challenging South Africans who can pay for their TV license fees to do so. “We need South Africans to be also responsible. People must pay for their licenses and people must also make sure that they themselves make a contribution because the culture of non- payment also does contribute to the challenges. Just pay as you pay for DSTV, just pay as you pay for your airtime then you will find the SABC of being of value to you.” The Public Broadcaster has been battling to collect TV license fees from non-payers including from some in the big corporate world.”