The two disbanded African National Congress (ANC) regional executive committees in the North West have lodged an appeal against their dissolution with the party’s national leadership in Luthuli House. Both the Dr Kenneth Kaunda and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati regions were dissolved by the Provincial Task Team (PTT). The affected regions had parallel regional executive committees, believed to be fuelled by factionalism. Just a few weeks after challenging the ANC national leadership’s decision to dissolve the provincial executive committee, the two regions have now been disbanded themselves. The decision was taken by the PTT two weeks ago, and this was only formally communicated on Monday this week. The PTT says the party cannot function effectively with parallel structures that sow divisions within the organisation. PTT Spokesperson, Kabelo Mataboge says, “A decision has finally been arrived at wherein those REC’S have ceased to exist meaning that they have been dissolved and the PTT jointly with the NEC deploys are actually in a process of trying to establish RTT’S in those areas.” Mataboge says a regional task team which includes all opposing factions will be established by the end of this week. “The PTT jointly with the NEC deployees are actually in the process of trying to establish the RTT’S in those areas. We will conclude them by the latest Thursday this week,” says Mataboge. Now both the dissolved regional structures are determined to fight their dissolution. They have lodged an appeal with the ANC’s national leadership. Secretary for the disbanded Dr Kenneth Kaunda Region, Lopang Rothman says, “In our engagement with the NEC deployee and the PTT it’s very clear that there is no structure that took the decision to disband us. As we are sitting here there is communication from the PTT coordinator that says that the NEC is going to investigate the status of our region. Up to so far there has never been any investigation. Now while waiting for the report of the investigation we are told we are disbanded” Meanwhile, some ANC members in the Dr Kenneth Kaunda and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati regions have taken the party to court. They are challenging the decision to disband the provincial executive committee. The committee which was led by former premier, Supra Mahumapelo, was disbanded in August. Their matter is expected to be heard at the Johannesburg High Court on the 23rd of October.