The Democratic Alliance (DA) Caucus in the City of Cape Town says it is not shocked or disturbed by the dramatic resignation of five Councillors on Thursday. After outgoing Mayor Patricia de Lille delivered her last address at the start of the council meeting, DA Chief Whip in the City of Cape Town, Shaun August, resigned publicly. Four other Councillors followed suit saying they do not agree with how the DA operates and how De Lille has been treated. This was no ordinary council meeting. De Lille opened it with a fiery address and did not pull any punches. Allegations of corruption that have been hanging over her head for more than a year have resurfaced and she used the council chambers as her platform to set the record straight. “My name has become synonymous with fighting corruption and any attempt to the contrary I will fight to clear my name. I will not break and I will not give into these vehement and racist bullying tactics.” There was even more drama after the speech.  DA Chief Whip Shaun August announced his resignation both as a Councillor and from the DA, forcing the speaker to adjourn for 15 minutes. “I am resigning as Chief Whip. I cannot tolerate this racism in the DA.” August was soon followed by four other Councillors who have labelled the DA as a racist party. The DA Caucus has welcomed the resignation of the Councillors. Member of the Caucus, Grant Twigs says they are not sad. “We’re not shocked. The caucus is not disturbed, but we are concerned that when the party fights corruption and they choose to leave. There’s no crisis within the DA caucus. The majority continue to fight corruption.” Allegations of corruption against de Lille in the Bowman Gillfillan report are being discussed and a decision to accept or reject the report will be taken. Meanwhile, de Lille is expected to resign from her mayoral seat in less than a week. This is after an agreement was reached between her and the DA two months ago. The African National Congress (ANC) in the City of Cape Town has called for a report implicating de Lille in covering up corruption be made public. “We are pushing, as the ANC, that report must be moved to white because the contents of it are in the public domain already and we are very disturbed that even the Speaker is allowing these DA leaders to play with the emotions of the public. Because this matter is a matter of public importanc; it affects the No.: 1 citizen of Cape Town, that is the Mayor Patricia de Lille,” says ANC caucus leader, Xolani Sotashe.  More video on DA members resigning: 