The embattled City of Tshwane Manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola has accused his employer, in particular, the Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga of embarking on a witch-hunt to dismiss him. Mosola says the Mayor and the Democratic Alliance-led council have appointed an illegal firm to probe him. On Thursday, Mosola was granted an interim interdict by the Labour Court in Johannesburg. This prevented the council from tabling a report on the findings of a corruption probe against him. The City of Tshwane has accused Dr Moeketsi Mosola of exceeding his powers. This is after he allegedly signed a R12 billion tender that was subsequently awarded to a company called Glad Africa without following proper procedures. Mosola says the council has treated him unfairly in its investigations. “Since August the Executive Mayor and the DA led government in Tshwane has subjected me to a Kangaroo court of public opinion where as a city manager my voice has been quite and they’ve been running amok tarnishing my name. “For the first time I went to court to assert my name and I am glad I live in a country where rules and regulations are respected. I want to state it categorically that from the beginning I voluntarily subjected myself to a legal process of council thinking it will be fair but that has not been the case,” Mosola explained. Mosola was granted an interim interdict by the labour court on Thursday. It prohibits any attempt by the DA to make public a preliminary report regarding a probe against him. Mosola believes he has been punished for acting against corrupt individuals. “Well I’ve said that before that my mistake was to suspend and fire the chief of staff who was appointed in an irregular manner, so that matter has embarrassed the DA. They wanted me to pull my hands and do nothing about that. So whether you’re an ANC, EFF if you’re found doing wrong things you will suffer the consequence, that’s how I work.” He says the DA has failed to adhere to the principles of good governance by ignoring the Public Finance Management Policies when dealing with the city’s finances. Mosola who is only a year and half into his job, says although his firm stance on corruption has brought some gains to the city’s financial situation, it has brought trouble to his personal life. “ When  I took up this city it was in the red by R2 billion. All right? That situation has changed as we speak and it’s now R3.8-billion in surplus in bank account. So talk about a city manager who has changed the city’s finances to a stable financial.” The City of Tshwane maintains that the labour court has no jurisdiction over the matter as it is about an investigation currently underway over tender irregularities against its city manager. Mosola has denied perceptions that he is fighting his employers to satisfy the wishes of the EFF and ANC councillors. He remains adamant that the court of law will exonerate him from any wrong doing.  Mosola says he will welcome an independent investigation to probe him. 