African National Congress (ANC) structures in Limpopo want the party’s leadership to remove officials implicated in the VBS Mutual Bank saga while waiting for internal investigations by integrity committee. The party’s leadership has instructed its integrity committee to investigate involvement of the party’s two senior provincial leaders in the VBS saga. ANC Deputy Provincial Chairperson and Vhembe District Municipality Executive Mayor, Florence Radzilani and ANC Provincial Treasurer, Danny Msiza have been implicated in the VBS’ report by the curator, dubbed ‘The Great Bank Heist’. ANC structures in Limpopo have continued to pressurise the party leadership to remove officials implicated in the VBS looting. The ANC Veterans League, ANC Women’s League and ANC Youth League in the province want party provincial Deputy Chairperson Florence Radzilani and party Treasurer Danny Msiza to step aside from their positions, while investigations continue into their alleged involvement in VBS’s downfall. The ANCWL says it is time to move beyond statements and take action. The league’s Spokesperson Christina Mohale says they are concerned because people implicated are still in office. “We are concerned because what we are asking ourselves is ‘how long the integrity committee is going to take? Have they already called the implicated members of the ANC?’ We are concerned because these people are still holding office and remember we are not sure because there were issues that others were saying we don’t know about this and that’s why we are saying we are giving the integrity committee time to deal with this.” Acting Secretary of the ANC Youth League in Limpopo, Matome Moremi-Taueatsoala says the mayors of all municipalities that invested in VBS must be removed. “We have accepted what has happened in Giyani in Vhembe. It must follow in Tubatse; it must follow in Lepelle-Nkumpi; it must follow in other municipalities which are implicated. If we need to turnaround the image of the ANC, we must start taking ourselves serious by removing those mayors who have invested the money meant for service delivery for their own selfish reason and commission.” Limpopo ANC Spokesperson Donald Selamolela says the provincial leadership will allow the integrity committee to finalise its work before deciding on any action. “We note the calls made by our structures; we note the calls made by everyone; some of the structures and so on. We will allow the integration committee to spearhead this matter so that we arrive at a determination that will able to satisfy the process satisfy everyone concerned and satisfy everyone affected.” The ANC Veterans League says it will release a statement on the way forward on Friday because the party’s leadership has failed to adhere to their call of removing officials implicated in the VBS saga.  