The family of the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa says they will miss her dearly, while NCOP Chairperson Thandi Modise says South Africa has been left poorer following her passing. Molewa was laid to rest at the Zandfontein cemetery west of Pretoria on Saturday. She died at the age of 61 after a short illness at a Pretoria hospital two weeks ago following a trip to China. Her son Basiame Sethema says they will always have fond memories of their mother. Molewa has been described as a walking library of nature conservation and biodiversity. President Cyril Ramaphosa expressed sadness at her passing while delivering an eulogy during her funeral service. The service was attended by former Presidents Thabo Mbeki, Kgalema Motlanthe, Jacob Zuma, cabinet ministers, Heads of Missions and High Commissioners as well as the country’s Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. They came from all walks of life and all scope of the scope of the society to say their final goodbyes to the minister revered for her commitment to serve her people, the country and the world. All four presidents she served under were out in full force, as were her colleagues in cabinet. President Ramaphosa, with whom she was in China when she fell sick, spoke of his devastation. Ramaphosa also hailed Minister Molewa for creating awareness on issues of climate change and her vast knowledge on the environment. She will forever be remembered for leading the fight against the killing of the Rhino. Dedicated to the African National Congress (ANC) until the end, her peers in the ANC Women’s League said she may be gone, but her legacy lives on. National Council of Provinces Chairperson Thandi Modise says South Africa has been left poorer. Modise says the ANC is still in pain. Not only was she a politician, she was also a mother and a grandmother.  Her son Basiame Sethema shared fond memories. Minister Molewa was laid to rest at the Zandsfontein Cemetery, west of Pretoria. She is survived by her mother, four children, three grandchildren and six siblings. Click below for more on the story: