South Africa has slammed the continued unilateral United States economic embargo against Cuba, calling it regressive while accusing Washington of serious human rights violations under the more than 50-year old policy. South Africa’s Ambassador Jerry Matjila was speaking in the annual debate in the United Nations General Assembly on the “Necessity of Ending the Economic, Commercial and Financial Embargo against Cuba.” “South Africa urges the United States to resume cordial diplomatic relations that will advance an end to the deplorable Cuban embargo, which is a relic of a by-gone era, and undermines the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations that we are all committed to as Member States of this organization. “It therefore goes without saying that South Africa will vote, once again, in solidarity with Cuba, and call on all Member States, including developed countries which are very quiet now, to voice their condemnation and vote in favour of the resolution in question, urging the international community to work together in freeing Cuba from the political, economic, commercial and financial shackles of the embargo, which has been in place for more than half a century now,” Matjila explained. Matjila lamented the reversal of efforts started under the administration of former President Barack Obama when current President Donald Trump signed a memorandum to strengthen the embargo in June of last year. South Africa also assailed proposed amendments by the United States to this year’s draft resolution that is likely to delay the final vote on until Thursday. Pretoria also endorsed the Africa Group Statement presented by Morocco’s Ambassador Omar Hilale. “The African Group is of the view that economic sanctions against Cuba have caused great economic hardship, especially for the poor and vulnerable populations in the country. We believe that an immediate end to the economic embargo against Cuba is necessary, and it can serve to promote social and better standards of life for the people of Cuba. In that regard, we encourage the spirit of dialogue to be employed to resolve the issue and therefore allow Cuba to continue to effectively contribute to global development.” 