Educators say communities should play a decisive role in curbing violence at schools. Videos depicting learners attacking educators have been going viral on various social media platforms. The concerns emerge as the world celebrates International Teachers’ Day on Friday. Teaching – a pillar of professions and teachers have been commemorated for their role in society since 1994. And this year World Teacher’s Day is marred by incidents of teachers being attacked by pupils. The recent killing of a teacher allegedly at the hands of a learner shocked the nation. Some educators believe a lack of support from stakeholders is largely to blame for the violence. Free State Education HoD, Tsoarelo Malakoane says, “Teachers are no longer feeling safe.  Teachers go to school and not knowing whether you’ll still come back alive… is just a recipe for a nation.” Teacher unions are equally concerned and are calling for all stakeholders to join hands to save the profession. Free State SADTU secretary Mokholoane Moloi says, “Many parents and the community as a key role player of the  school, at least some work should have been done …  We believe it will be more efficient and effective if there is collaboration of Social Development and the police department, community leaders and even church, because the problem is bigger than just schools and education.” NAPTOSA’s Ramakhera Dikotsi says “Intensive training for teachers in terms of dealing with violence has to be a continuous engagement with all stakeholders.” Despite the challenges, all is not lost. Educator Gaogangalelwe Nsintsing says “Teachers are the creators, the builders of all professions. So before you can become anything, before you become a lawyer you first have to go through the hands of a teacher. So Teacher’s Day is definitely a way of the world to say to teachers we recognise your effort.” Educator Princess Mjanyelwa explains that teaching is no longer a worthwhile profession “for me because these days you are helpless. We cannot reprimand our learners, we would depend on policies to reprimand the learners. You cannot apply your own discretion to reprimand a learner.” UNESCO and Education International (EI) use World Teachers’ Day to better understand the role teachers play in the development of students and society. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has warned that if South Africa does not make education its priority, problems such unemployment and poverty will continue to haunt the country. Several experts have attributed the country’s currently high unemployment rate which now stands at 27,2 per cent to a poor education system. Government, labour and business are currently holding a two-day Job Summit in Midrand, Johannesburg. Lesufi says the solution to many of the problems the country is experiencing is a quality education system. “If we can’t get education right, we’ll never get the country right. The only way to get education right is to get a appropriately qualified teacher that is appropriately remunerated and appropriately acknowledged. If you are using favouritism rather than rewarding good teachers, your will lose good teachers. If you want to honour educators, treat them fairly, support them and create an environment that is conducive for their development.”  