Calm has been restored to Ennerdale, south of Johannesburg.  This after the the area was the centre of the total shutdown in predominantly coloured communities in the city. Communities which include Eldorado Park and Westbury are demanding that government immediately address issues of crime and unemployment.  #GautengShutdown Traffic on the N12 South of Johannesburg has been disrupted after some Elderado Park residents have set two tyres alight on the freeway. Waste workers have now been deployed to remove the tyres. This as police keep a close eye on the situation. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/chnELvPwSO — Manqoba Mchunu (@ManqobaMchunu) October 5, 2018  The tyres used to block the main road leading into Ennerdale are still smouldering alongside the rubble that’s scattered on the streets. The organisers of the protest say they will not rest until President Cyril Ramaphosa and Premier David Makhura attend to their grievances. The protests which have spread to the South of Joburg started in Westbury more than a week ago, after Heather Petersen was shot and killed in a cross fire between rival gangs, her niece critically wounded . Petersen will be buried on Saturday. Watch video below:  Specialist investigator, Mike Bolhuis, says what is happening in coloured communities in Johannesburg will force the government to begin to take crime seriously. The organisers of the protests in Ennerdale and Eldorado Park, south of the city, have vowed to continue with the action until President Cyril Ramaphosa and Gauteng premier David Makhura pledge to find solutions to gangsterism and related crimes in their areas. They accuse the government of excluding them from its empowerment policies such as BEE and Affirmative Action. Bolhuis says the communities should draw the attention of the authorities to their plight. “The solution is that the government takes crime seriously and makes sure that we have a non-corrupted police units in our country. About 80% of the police cannot protect and serve. And if you have that scenario, I mean, you gonna have criminals all over the place and crime will be rife. It’s a lucrative country to commit crime, they can and can get away with it.” 