A family member of the seven people who were found dead in Vlakfontein near Lenasia, South of Johannesburg, says she is struggling to make peace with what she saw at the mortuary. Police are looking for a man identified as Sibusiso Ernest Khoza, a Zimbabwean national believed to be behind the murder of the three women and four children. Khoza, who posed as a medical doctor has been living with the family for three months and he presented himself as the son of the late brother of the deceased. Gauteng Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane says they will do their best to apprehend him. “It doesn’t matter where we find him. But we will find him. And I promise you he will be arrested. We are currently looking for him and we are confident that the law enforcement agencies will be arresting him. We have put in a very strong team now.” Bodies of three adult females and four children aged between two and eleven were discovered at a house after a tenant started noticing a nasty smell and alerted members of the community. Mlungisi Khoza is one of the tenants who lives in the backroom and he explains the experience. “We asked this boy that it’s very smelly here in the house. His response was that he had used rat poison inside. We then asked him to open so that we could search for the rat that is so smelly, he then said he could not find the key.” Another man alleged to have been staying at the house has been taken in for questioning by the police. Community Member Chesterfield Nephali says they are devastated. “It’s scary you know. The way crime is so rife. We have been questioning the police to say why the do not come to patrol. Because I do not think this is the only one.” Community members are also complaining that their police station is far, where they have to go to Lenasia South to report cases. Nepali is calling on government to build a local police station and to establish community watch. “We’ve been speaking to the councilor and he promised. We have been speaking to the minister about this and they promised. The only thing they asked is land. Now he’s busy to address this issue of the police station.” This man is calling on neighbours to check up on each other.  “When it comes to our neighbours, we have no love for each other. If something happens to my house, my neighbour is not going to know, because he has no clue as to what is happening there.”  