In Malawi‘s Mulanje district, one woman, has even the men running scared. Her name is Senior Chieftainess Chikumbu. Since 2015, she has annulled more than two-thousand marriages and seen 800 former child brides return to school. The chieftainess spoke to SABC News about the initial opposition she met from parents, who saw marrying off their daughters as an easy way out of poverty and how she is using education to change long-held beliefs on harmful traditional practices in Malawi. The chieftainess had worked as a teacher for just over 20 years.  During that time, something stood out girls were just dropping out of school and the villages had a growing number of teenage mothers. “While I was here I saw most girls so small turning to marriage and it was paining me, I  tried to rescue some whilst I  was a teacher but it didn’t work well, because I  had nothing to support me well. ” In 2009, a call came from the royal family that she needed to take up a new responsibility as a senior chiefainess. Chieftainess Chikumbu took up the position officially in 2011. She gradually started talking about child marriages despite stiff resistance from the community long used to marrying off girls from as early as the age of ten. “  Most of them saying poverty some, peer pressure, other say it is because of tradition, I said no, there is no tradition, i am a custodian of culture but this is not our culture….”so I was giving an example of myself a teacher, you can be a teacher, nurse, ……they were not taking it.” In 2015, Malawi’s parliament passed a law forbidding marriage before the age of 18 but she says the fines are not high enough. Three years since she began the battle, Chieftainess Chikumbu has made huge strides. There are 2002 marriages that i have ended, about 800 they went back to school, out of those I have got some in the universities. Seventeen-year-old Jennifer Phiri, whose name we have changed to protect her identity, is one such beneficiary, last year her mother forced her into an arranged marriage – hoping that she could earn some money from marrying her off. Word, then got out to secret mothers – a group of women who work with Senior Chiefainess Chikumbu to rescue the girls and Phiri was saved from an abusive man. She has gone to school and is slowly adopting to life as a child again. To break the cycle of poverty in Malawi, Chieftainess Chikumbu believes the only way out is education. “I don’t marry your girls, send them to school, when you educate the girl child you educate the nation.” Although primary school in Malawi is free, the rescued girls add a strain to the family’s resources and the Senior Chieftainess uses her resources and most recently the the support of UN women to keep them in school. Watch video below: 