The turnaround of the Frere hospital in East London, Eastern Cape, is being recognised. The Frere hospital is set to represent Africa in the International Hospital Federation Awards(IHFA) in Brisbane, Australia. The hospital made it to the top six stage and was chosen from among 160 entries from 33 countries. Just by making it this far, it will receive a merit award. The hospital’s strategy is simple: to give patients world class service. But it has been a tough road to get here. Between 2008 and 2013, the hospital was known for its high maternal death and infection rates in its casualty units. A five-year turnaround strategy was then implemented. Maternal deaths dropped from 135 in 2012/2013 to ten in the 2017/18 financial year. The Frere Hospital CEO, Dr. Rolene Wegner says their success is encouraging. “Because we work in a public sector, people often have a very poor opinion about us as civil servants, us as public sector services and there’s a perception that the quality of care is not good. There’s a perception that we are wasteful, there’s a perception that we are corrupt e.t.c. “And I think for us our story, our transformation gives people hope. It’s affirmation that we are quite capable of excellence. We are quite capable of innovating and we can transform health services in our country.” But it is not only about awards, more importantly it’s about patient care. Breast cancer survivor, 58-year-old Charmaine Ellerbeck has first hand experience of the hospital’s transformation. She remembers what it was like when she started her cancer treatment. “From the mammograms to the sonars that I had were done downstairs in the Frere Hospital that was quite dingy and Monday’s and Tuesdays were days you had to come to hospital very early and wait your turn. Seeing a doctor was with two people in a room. I completed my chemo here and it has been phenomenal.” The head of the provincial health department, Dr. Thobile Mbengashe says they are pleased with the work that have been put in. ” I think this is now a true reflection of an independent international and a true competition amongst the best in the world to actually say it is possible that you will experience the best quality health services in the country.” The turnaround at Frere hospital was backed up by upgrades worth nearly R500 million . These saw up to date medical equipment installed and infrastructure improved.