The management of the Tshwane University Technology says exams at the institution’s Soshanguve campuses, north of Pretoria, have been rescheduled for the 3 December to allow students ample time to prepare. However, exams at other campuses are planned to start on the 12th of November. Academic activities at the Soshanguve campuses are back in full swing following a seven week disruption. Activities at TUT Soshanguve campuses were disrupted after final year student Katlego Monareng was allegedly shot dead by police during Student Representative Council elections that turned violent. The university’s Vice Chancellor Professor Stanley Mokhola says a full report on the cause of violence that led to Monareng’s tragic death will be released later this week. “We are waiting to get an interim report by Friday this week to indicate which way things are going, to make a determination. We need to find out the actual cause of the whole problem – whether the elections were rigged or not – as indicated by the IEC forensic investigation. We do not take things for granted here. We want to get to the bottom of things and tragedy, what led to the death of one our students who was in his final year. We hope this investigation will be able to tell us where things went wrong and so on.” The university management is engaging with the family of the deceased student before a final decision could be made to establish a bursary fund and a statue in his name. At the same time, a task team has been established to look into the possibility of refurbishing Monareng’s family home in Limpopo. Mokhola says exams have been rescheduled for students to catch up with lost time. “The rest of the exams are going to start on the 12th of November for Limpopo and Pretoria campuses but in Soshanguve where there were problems, we’ve agreed that exams be shifted to the 3rd of December so that from today until the second of December there will be classes going on.” Students have also weighed in on the latest developments at the Soshanguve campuses. “Yes, surely we are happy because it’s almost seven weeks that the purpose that we came here for was stuck, but at least now we are extremely happy. “ SRC leader Kelvin Phehla says they gave the management until the first semester of the 2019 academic year to accede to students demands. Phehla says they demand justice for their fellow student who died in the hands of the police. “No, we are totalising the circumstances of the incidents of Comrade Katlego Monareng to sabotage the future of our students here. We just need justice for that fellow young man who has died in the hands of police as a final year student. So the management right now they’re playing politics.” In the meantime, the eight students accused of inciting violence that led to abrupt halting of academic activities at TUT’s Soshanguve North and South campuses remain suspended until investigations are completed.  Click below for more on the story:  