President Cyril Ramaphosa says the Presidential Job Committee will monitor the initiatives and programmes that stemmed from 2018’s job summit. Ramaphosa closed the 2018 Jobs Summit in Midrand, Johannesburg on Friday. He added that his first instruction to the committee would be to ensure that a jobs summit is held every two years, as it is an important factor in discussing and tackling the issue of unemployment in the country. Ramaphosa says the task ahead will be to focus on implementation. “This has been a true festival of ideas that have come forward. We are going to make sure we get the Presidential Jobs Committee that’s going to be set up to monitor the implementation and ensure that all these ideas that have come out of here are properly monitored. I’m going to be proposing that we should have a bi-annual jobs summit. Let’s get together again, as this brains trust on jobs, to come and evaluate where we are because this is a joint national project and we must get on with it,” says Ramaphosa.  Labour Union Cosatu has lashed out against other unions for failing to attend the Job Summit in Johannesburg. The union has condemned the decision by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) to boycott the summit. Cosatu General Secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali says the issues raised at the summit require everyone to work together. “It is important for the trade unions to work together on the issue of unemployment. This is an issue that we should not be competing about. We should be putting our differences and be able to engage in a social dialogue. I don’t know the reasons why they were not keen to participate because not long ago they were inviting us in a meeting to discuss the same issue of unemployment.” The Job Summit agreement has identified buying local, increasing exports, finance and funding in the agricultural sector as some of the key areas that can help in the creation of jobs. Human Resources Director for Nestlé, David Moloto took part in the Summit … 