The Machel family says they are devastated that former apartheid Foreign Affairs Minister, Pik Botha died without disclosing what he knew about the death of Mozambican President, Samora Machel. Machel died on 19 October 1986 under mysterious circumstances, when their Tupolev 134 plane crashed into the Lebombo Mountains in South Africa, after allegedly following a false beacon. Speaking to SABC News at the launch of the book “SAMORA MACHEL” by Mozambican journalist Kok Nam in Johannesburg last night, Machel’s widow, Graca says the family continues to beg apartheid government officials to disclose what happened to him. “But if those who were involved are allowed to die without being properly investigated, today it’s Pik Botha, it was Magnus Malan and many others who were in security – they know but they will die with the truth because it was part of the brotherhood.” These sentiments are shared by Machel’s daughter Josina, who says there is information to support their belief that her father was assassinated. “Pik Botha just died and he could have facilitated, clarified in whichever terms… you can say I can make this information public or I can write about it, publicise it only after my death but it’s known it was not an accident. It was an assassination and there is information to back it up.”  The Nelson Mandela and Ahmed Kathrada Foundations commemorates the life and times of the late Mozambican President Samora Machel. Machel’s widow, Graca was the keynote speaker at the launch of a book on the life of Samora Machel by Mozambican photo journalist Kok Nam in Houghton on Thursday. “This is Oliver Tambo and Samora – the two of them explaining exactly why Mozambique is being attacked… three way it was. Part of what he said at the time is that we are attacked because Mozambique has sophisticated weapons – the weapons we have is that we’re anti-racist society … later in the discussion he said RSA will be free and will be a society of all races. And South Africans and Mozambicans we are one and he said we will be free and our anti sophisticated weapon would be anti-racist society.”   Mozambique expresses satisfaction with ongoing investigation The Mozambican government has expressed satisfaction with the cooperation from the countries involved in the investigation to establish the circumstances surrounding the plane crash that killed the then President, Samora Machel in 1986. The Governor of Maputo Province, Raimundo Maico Diomba revealed this during the commemoration of the tragic crash that killed Machel and 33 others in Mbuzini bordering South Africa and Mozambique. Family members of the plane crash victims and Government officials from Mozambique and Mpumalanga remembering those who perished at Samora Machel Museum in Mbuzini. President Machel and 33 of his compatriots died when the plane – Tupolev TU 134A-3 – they were travelling in crashed in the mountains of Mbuzini near Komatipoort in 1986. They were returning home following a meeting in Lusaka, Zambia, when the crash happened. During the commemoration the families laid wreaths at the site.  Governor of Maputo Province Raimundo Maico Diomba expressed satisfaction with the on-going investigation. The investigation is being carried out by South Africa, Mozambique and Russia. “The investigation is going on, when it’s finished everybody will know who killed Samora Machel, who planned to kill Samora Machel in the time being we are just waiting for the results of the investigation which is going on between two boundaries South Africa and Mozambique.” MEC for Sports Arts and Culture in Mpumalanga, Thandi Shongwe shared the same sentiments. “We want to have closure on this matter at least if you know so and so participated so and so planned the crash i think we well get closure and the people of Mozambique will get closure because as in now they have many questions that are not answered.” A member of the ANCYL Sam Masango encouraged young Mozambicans to seek education in order to deal with the socio-economic challenges facing the country. He says both countries face similar challenges. “You will remember that poverty and inequality is the struggle in Mozambique and the same in South Africa has has experienced crossing over to South Africa young people in particular need to take up the spear because it is no longer a question of a will it is a must that young people must stand up and live a life that epitomizes comrade Samora Machel.” Meanwhile a Frelimo Youth League representative, Sibuciso Silvestre says they are following on the footsteps of Samora Machel as young people from Mozambique to bring change. “Lack of employment many people don’t work, they are looking for employment but don’t have work, however, the government of Mozambique is involved in infrastructure development to create jobs.” The Samora Machel Museum features photographic exhibition based on the socio – economic and political history of Machel.