Saudi Arabia’s chief prosecutor will visit Istanbul on Sunday for talks with Turkish authorities as part of the investigation into the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Turkey’s president said on Friday. “They (the Saudis) are sending the chief prosecutor on Sunday to Turkey,” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, adding that Ankara had more evidence on the killing. Saudi Arabia said on Thursday the murder of journalist Khashoggi appeared to have been premeditated, based on information from Turkey, backing away from an earlier claim that he was killed in a brawl. It was the latest twist in the shifting official narrative of the October 2 killing inside the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul, which US President Donald Trump has derided as “one of the worst cover-ups” in history. Saudi Arabia has sought to draw a line under the crisis, and a rights group said Thursday that authorities had allowed Khashoggi’s eldest son Salah and his family to leave the country after lifting a travel ban. But the kingdom still faces mounting pressure from sceptical world powers demanding answers and to know the whereabouts of Khashoggi’s body. The Saudi public prosecutor said he was making the latest assessment on the basis of evidence supplied by Turkey, which has been the source of a series of grisly revelations about the government critic’s death. After first insisting Khashoggi left the consulate unharmed, Saudi authorities said he was killed in an argument that degenerated into a brawl before finally accepting what Turkey had said virtually from the start – that he was killed in a premeditated hit. “Information from the Turkish authorities indicates that the act of the suspects in the Khashoggi case was premeditated,” the office of public prosecutor Sheikh Saud al-Mojeb said in a statement carried by the state-run Saudi Press Agency. “The public prosecution continues its investigation with suspects… to complete the course of justice. Khashoggi was the victim of an “extrajudicial execution” committed by the Saudi state, UN expert Agnes Callamard said Thursday, calling for an international investigation. Separately, CIA Director Gina Haspel briefed Trump on the latest developments in the investigation of the killing after a fact-finding mission to Turkey.  