The South African Police Service (SAPS) is worried about lack of human resources. This was revealed by the Deputy Police commissioner Human Resource Management Lieutenant, General Bonang Ngwenya, at the Limpopo annual police excellence awards in Polokwane. Ngwenya says a number of police officers have recently expressed unhappiness that they are not recognised and appreciated and have as a result applied for early retirement. She urged police management to reward and appreciate all members accordingly, especially those with special skills through promotion. Ngwenya says the social conditions in the country are putting pressure on police to fight crime. “The socio-economic dynamics facing the country exert pressure on us to deliver on our mandate. Allow me to express concerns to our minister of police, the honourable Bheki Cele, and the national commissioner Khehla Sithole. We are worried about human resource.” General Ngwenya also warned police officers to refrain from corrupt activities. Last month four police officers stationed at the Bela Bela police station were arrested by the Hawks for alleged armed robbery and corruption. Ngwenya says corrupt police officers have no space in the SAPS. “Let us speak out against corruption, negligence among police officers. There is no space in this dignified and valuable organisation for the corrupt and lazy, find another space, we will root you out, we only have space for dedicated loyal, brave and honest individuals.” Meanwhile, provincial Commissioner, General Jimmy Ledwaba, says police officers need to be awarded for their dedication to motivate them to fight crime in the country. “These awards are one of the tools to show that our members receive proper recognition. It is very befitting to honour this exceptional members because they form part of the SAPS machinery that keeps the province going.” Meanwhile recent police crime statistics have showed that crime has gone down by at least 8.2 %in Limpopo. However some community members have called for police to come up with intense form of crime fighting strategies which also include foot patrols. 