The ANC has referred the alleged plot against President Cyril Ramaphosa to its top six officials. This is among the outcomes of the ANC NEC meeting held in Pretoria at the weekend. The two-day meeting reflected on a wide range of issues including unity in the ANC, efforts to spur economic growth after the country slipped into recession, as well as the terms of reference of the party’s Integrity Commission. Several ANC leaders including Secretary General Ace Magashule and former President Jacob Zuma are accused of trying to hatch a plot to unseat President Ramaphosa. With just eight months before the crucial 2019 elections, the ANC is in desperate need for unity. And calls for unity were central at its all important NEC meeting at the weekend. The elephant in the room at the two-day meeting were allegations of a plot by some senior ANC members to oust President Cyril Ramaphosa. Speaking on the outcomes of their meeting, ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule said the matter is now in the hands of the top six officials. Magashule, who was also accused of being part of the plot, said he has cordial relations with the president. He insisted that recusing himself when the matter comes before the officials would be tantamount to outsourcing his responsibility.  Political analyst, Professor Susan Booysen, on the other hand says good working relations between the two will help forge the elusive unity in the ANC. The meeting also resolved to help the Youth League with its preparations for a successful national congress before the end the year. A team comprising Lindiwe Zulu and some former ANCYL leaders like Fikile Mbalula, Ronald Lamola and Zizi Kodwa have been appointed to oversee the process. Already there are allegations that some senior ANC members, including party Secretary General Ace Magashule, are working to have their preferred candidate, Thanduxolo Sabelo, elected president. But Magashule says no-one will be allowed to decide on who should become the League’s president. Magashule also said they will visit areas experiencing drug and gang problems like Westbury in the south of Johannesburg.   More on the media briefing with Abongile Dumako:  Call for unity In his political report to the ANC NEC on Friday, President Cyril Ramaphosa called for unity insisting that working together is not an option for the governing party as it prepares for the sixth democratic elections scheduled before the end of May next year. Another milestone for the meeting is endorsing the mandate and the independence of their Integrity Commission now with powers to investigate any member without fear or favour. The recently appointed Provincial Task Team in the North West also featured with talks that those against the PTT have challenged it in court with former Provincial Chair Supra Muhamapelo threatening to withdraw his participation. 