Communication Minister, Nomvula Mokonyane is expected to visit the Cofimvaba Hospital in the Eastern Cape as part of struggle stalwart Albertina Sisulu’s centenary birth  celebrations. The hospital visit will focus on some of the roles Ma Sisulu played in society – as a nurse, midwife and a caregiver to women and children in the community. Mokonyane’s spokesperson, Mlimandlela Ndamase says the visit will also serve as an opportunity to engage with the nursing community and hospital staff members. “She’ll be interacting with the nursing staff at the hospital and remembering that Ma Sisulu was a committed nurse during her time and earlier years and also was a caregiver in those areas of Cofimvaba, Ngcobo and Tsomo. She will be in that area to interface with the nursing staff and engage the hospital community but also will be delivering some gifts for the children’s wards, the maternity wards etc in trying to extend the legacy of Ma Sisulu of building a caring society.” On Monday, a number of delegates and dignitaries — including members of the Sisulu family — braved a cold morning in Johannesburg, as they made their way to the Croesus Cemetery in Newclare, in Johannesburg. It’s where the late struggle icon, Ma Albertina Sisulu, was laid to rest seven years ago. The anti-apartheid activist is buried next to her late husband, Walter Sisulu. Both tombstones bear their images and names. The day started with a wreath-laying ceremony. Minister Mokonyane led the proceedings. She said it’s important for the nation to celebrate the life of Ma Albertina Sisulu and her significant contribution towards the country’s liberation.  Earlier, Communication Deputy Minister Pinky Kekana hosted a Women Dialogue in celebration of the centenary Ma Sisulu Centenary  in Mbombela. Kekana visited GRIP, in preparation for a dialogue on gender based violence. She also weighed on the developments around the topical Timothy Omotoso trial in Port Elizabeth. “Really our courts have to be sensitive to women issues; we have to join hands and be part of the gender summit that the President is convening so that we can influence some of these things. Perpetrators continue to sit on the bench when women are hard at explaining themselves on what happened.” Kekana applauded centres such as GRIP for assisting victims of gender based abuse. GRIP provides shelter, assistance and also prepares gender based victims for court. GRIP Deputy CEO Linky Thusi says:”It becomes a must that every survivor that will be going to court, they have at least attended our court preparation programme which consists of three sessions where we basically want to make sure we have survivors that are strong.” Lerato is a victim of a decade long domestic and sexual abuse. She suffered in the hands of her husband. She was rescued by GRIP; the mother of three was brutally assaulted. “I went to the police station and open a case and protection order, I am still going through those cases and GRIP helped me with everything.” Kekana has urged young women to be resilient like Albertina Sisulu. A national gender summit will be held in November, concentrating on fighting the scourge of sexual violence among women. Click video below: 