The African National Congress (ANC) in Limpopo has described as ‘stupid’ the decision by the municipalities to invest money in the troubled VBS Mutual Bank. The ANC has issued an ultimatum to Premier Stan Mathabatha and party deployees in the municipalities to act against those implicated in the VBS saga within two weeks. The party task team headed by Dickson Masemola tabled its report before the special ANC Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) sitting on Tuesday night. Ten municipalities in the province had invested more than R1 billion meant for service delivery. Two senior officials, provincial Deputy Chairperson and Vhembe District Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani and Treasurer Danny Msiza have been deeply implicated in the Reserve Bank report. Provincial Secretary Soviet Lekganyane says that heads must roll in government and in the municipalities. “Stupid decisions have been made at the level of municipalities. They were very stupid in nature and we can’t accept them as the African National Congress. Heads must roll. We have sent deployees to government. We said it in no uncertain terms. The premier was there as the leader of government and we have given them until the end of this month to go and handle this matter and come back to the ANC on how they have handled it. Wrong things have happened. We are irritated. We can’t accept these things. We want a report from them on how they are handling this matter.” Lekganyane adds that the matter against Radzilani and Msiza will be handled by the party’s integrity commission. “The comrades whose names are being mentioned in the report should be subjected to the ANC National Integrity Report and we believe the commission will do it and the comrades have also publicly declared that they will cooperate with the processes of the African National Congress and once those processes are concluded the report will be made both available to the leadership of the ANC at national level and at provincial level.” Watch videos below:  