African National Congress (ANC) divisions in the North West remain entrenched after opposing factions in the Dr Kenneth Kaunda and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati regions, snubbed this weekend’s Provincial Task Team (PTT)  meeting. They say they do not recognise the team headed by Premier Job Mokgoro. The team was established at the end of August to administer the affairs of the party in the province.  This was after the Provincial Executive Committee led by former ANC Chairperson, Supra Mahumapelo, was disbanded. The 32-member team, with the current Premier Job Mokgoro, as its convener, discussed the way forward for next year’s election. This includes establishing a programme of action, deciding on the fate of the regions where parallel structures exist, and pronouncing on members who took the party to court. They were challenging the disbandment of the PEC. “We have noted that there are court proceedings or papers filed and as the PTT, we are the third respondent and process is already in place to challenge the court process because it’s a decision of the organisation and more importantly the Nasrec conference did express itself on the members about taking the organisation to court but we fully understand that it’s their right as members,” says Co-ordinator for the Provincial Task Team Keneetswe Mosenogi. Opposing factions from the Dr Kenneth Kaunda and Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati regions, did not honour the invitation. “We did not attend the meeting previously because from where we are sitting there is the PEC committee in the North West,  not a Provincial Task Team (PTT). We have questioned the legitimacy of the PTT, from where we are sitting as the REC there is no PTT but there is a PEC,  we are working with the current PEC. We are still acknowledging the PEC,” says spokesperson for the Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati region Gaolatlhwe Kgabo. Dr Kenneth Kaunda Spokesperson Kutlwano Masibi says ; “ We are challenging their status and it cannot be that we are going to talk to the lower structure,  the only persons that we can listen to because they got also the responsibility to rescind their decision is the NEC.” However, others have pledged support for the Provincial Task Team. “This PTT has got to be recognised because it has been established by the highest structure of the ANC in between conference, which is the NEC. So we cannot defy the NEC,” says Thabo Mosiane speaking on behalf of those in Dr Kenneth Kaunda Region. Dr Ruth Segomotsi Mompati region’s Segomotsi Mompati says;” We do not have the powers to recognise or reject the PTT actually, the opposite is the case.” The decision to disband the PEC is being challenged in court. The case is expected to be heard on the 23 October.  Click below for more on the story: 