The South African National Parks (SANParks) held a memorial service in honour of the late Environmental Minister Edna Molewa at the Kruger National Park. Among those who attended the memorial service are Kruger Park Rangers, members of the South African National Defence Force and general workers of the park. Rangers paraded outside the Nombolo Mdhluli Conference Centre in Skhukhuza in memory of the late Minister. Molewa passed away last week. Delivering a keynote address, Environmental Affairs Director General, Nosipho Ngcaba says they are still shocked by the sudden passing of Minister Molewa. Ngcaba says Molewa was not just a Minister for Environmental Affairs, but a true environmentalist. “She was an diligent leader, quiet resilient as well as nurturing. She was made for this sector because environmental issues are not understood as bread and butter issues.” Among those who attended the memorial service is the President of Contralesa, Kgoshi Lameck Mokoena. Mokoena says the minister will be remembered for working together with the traditional leaders to fight against the scourge of rhino poaching. “What even makes us proud as traditional leaders is that she is not part of those you read about on media because of corruption.” SANParks Chief Executive Officer Fundisile Mketeni says they consider building a monument in honour of Minister Molewa. “There are couple of issues that are outstanding that she wanted us to do. Firstly, it’s to make sure that the new reviewed plan for Kruger National Park is taken through the two provinces in all the levels. Another one, is Sangoni gate is opened? The lodge here that she wanted, it opened in February. We will make sure that it remains opened. We will look at other developments and see if we can consider a monument for her … she planned to visit Mozambique. We will make sure that those meetings happen, but a monument will be more fitting for the minister here in Kruger National Park.” Molewa’s daughter Didi Sethema has described her mother as a person who was brave and energetic. Click below for related videos:  