The Jesus Dominion International Church (JDI), of which controversial rape accused Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso is the founder, has been the target of furious protesters this weekend. Various political parties and members of the public joined forces in a protest to have the church closed. They gathered in front of the church in Port Elizabeth while a service was underway. They dispersed peacefully when the congregants left the building after a gathering of about two hours. There was a strong police presence while various political parties and the religious fraternity in the Nelson Mandela Metro stood together, against the alleged illegal activities, of which the JDI church is accused of. Despite the clashes with the protestors, several congregants dressed flamboyantly, including teenagers and young children, were seen entering the Jesus Dominion International Church in Govan Mbeki Avenue. The group of about a hundred people was vocal about closing the church. Before dispersing, the crowd also vowed to have the large name board on the church building removed within a day. ANC Women’s League coordinator, Nontombi Maya, says they condemn any form of patriarchy, and want to save the women and girls who are part of the church, by closing it. “We are coming to shut it down. We will not leave as responsible leaders. We are not here as fools. They see us here and close the doors. But we want make it clear. If they don’t adhere, they will have to face the consequences. It will be within the law.” Protestors also called on the municipality to clarify if the building was in the right zone as it situated in an area meant for business use, in the CBD. Andile Gqalane from the EFF says they condemn the illegal actions allegedly happening in the church, and do not want to suppress the church members. He says they are supporting a bigger cause. “We are angry. We are supporting the victims who are also victimised in court. The ANC and EFF have come out in full support of the victims. We want to close the church. Even it means we have to go inside and remove the people; we are not scared.” Meanwhile, two national ministers spoke out about the sexual offenses against women and children. Transport Minister Dr Blade Nzimande and Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga were speaking at the funeral of the late Eastern Cape Education MEC Mandla Makupula in East London, over the weekend. They made reference to trial of Omotoso and two co-accused, also calling on the religious churches to take a stand on illegal churches. In an exclusive interview with the SABC, a former JDI congregant, says he knows about groups of women that were allegedly taken to Durban. The Nigerian national, who wants to remain anonymous, says he became suspicious of Omotoso’s behaviour with the young girls. “The man is trying to get those young women to sleep with him. I asked them in the church what is this thing of young women. He also doesn’t worry about the men in the church; he worries about the women. I know that that man slept with those girls. I attended that church myself and I had to fight with my brothers who introduced me to the church.” A current congregant, Walter Maqabasa says Omotoso is being crucified, but he has not been found guilty of the alleged crimes. He says Omotoso turned his life around. “Omotoso changed my life around. He is a good man. The man of God helped me turn my life around. I was in crime but look at me now.” The constitution and bill of rights clearly stipulate that one can practice faith and freedom of association openly, meaning people have a right to gather and worship. The state is expected to bring in a new witness as the trial of Omotoso and his co-accused Zukiswa Sitho and Lusanda Sulani resumes at the Port Elizabeth High Court. Meanwhile, it’s alleged that several witnesses who would possibly be called to testify during the trial, have received death threats. Read social media reaction to the protest: Embed: 