President Cyril Ramaphosa has officially opened the state of the art offices of the Department of Home Affairs offices in Kokstad, southern KwaZulu-Natal. The offices provide improved and efficient department services such as birth, ID, passport and death certificate applications, reducing queues and waiting time for people who are doing their applications. Ramaphosa says he is pleased with the service and dedication of the Kokstad Home Affairs officials. “People here are properly sheltered when they receive services and it was a joy and pleasure for me to see how well service works in terms of technological advancement that we now have ,where people are able to come in and get quick service and efficient service and I was impressed with the dedication of officials here and that is very pleasing and I did not see or get any complaint.”  Kokstad farmworkers receive title deeds Over four hundred displaced farm workers from Kokstad have finally received title deeds after decades of suffering. The beneficiaries now own homes in the newly developed township of Franklin. President Cyril Ramaphosa has called on people who are beneficiaries of government RDP houses to refrain from selling their houses. There was excitement and jubilation despite inclement weather as once displaced communities finally received home ownership. The elderly are among the four hundred residents who spent decades living in farm compounds with no hope that one day they will own their own homes. Among the beneficiaries – Celina Mtolo and Lucia Makhaya. Over 4,3 million RDP houses have been built by the government since the dawn of democracy. President Ramaphosa has however raised his concern that some people sell their RDP houses the moment they get ownership. It wasn’t just the residents of Franklin who had much to celebrate. Communities around Kokstad were also given a new state of the art Home Affairs Office. Minister of Human Settlements, Nomaindia Mfeketo  said the government is going to speed up the handing over of title deeds countrywide. 