The Western Cape government says a decision will be made soon on whether the Garden Route should be declared a disaster area.  This follows veld fires in the region that have caused the death of eight people and the destruction of structures, including 18 homes. About 65 000 hectares of vegetation have been destroyed.  “Whatever support we can bring in, we’ll bring in.  Obviously here there’ll also be a housing issue.  The big discussion will be now in the next day or two whether we get it declared a disaster,” says Provincial Minister of Economic Opportunities, Alan Winde. About 600 people are still displaced following veld fires along the Garden Route.  They are being accommodated at various community halls, mainly in the Knysna area. Volunteers from organisations such as Gift of the Givers are facilitating donations of food, clothes and other necessities. A co-ordinator at Sedgefield, Mario Ferreira, says they are urging corporates to also come on board to assist those affected by the fires. “The main evacuations were around Karatara and Farleigh, Rheenendal area.  Whenever somebody needs to be evacuated, we basically prepare where they’re going just to be prepared, they come here, there’s food and all that sort of things available.”   Nearly 600 firefighters have been deployed to battle various blazes in the region. They are focusing on a fire at De Vlught, about 40 kilometres from Plettenberg Bay. Two Working on Fire helicopters and one SANDF Oryx are waterbombing from the air. The community of Farleigh outside Karatara, near Knysna, is still reeling after seven family members were killed. Another person died near Hoekwil. Community leader, Priscilla Lukas, says while many have lost their houses and belongings, it cannot be compared to the loss of loved ones. “My house burned down to the ground, two cars included. We’ve lost everything. At this stage I’m not concerned about my belongings that were lost, it’s more the community.” A plea has been made for businesses to come on board to assist those affected by the fires. 