Transport Minister Blade Nzimande says he is sending a team of engineers to the scene of the Limpopo multiple-vehicle crash in which 27 people including two children were killed. The province’s traffic authorities have established a task team to help the families of those who were killed on the N1 between Kranskop Toll Plaza and Nyl Plaza on Friday. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the crash was caused by a truck that had a tyre burst and then swerved into oncoming traffic. Nzimande says he is concerned about the high number of crashes on the N1. “We’re concerned about the continuing fatalities on our roads and we would like to take this opportunity to express, as a department, our most sincere condolences to the families of those who passed away and also wish those who are in hospital a speedy recovery. We have to do everything. We can and never give up in terms of trying to address the issue of road crashes and road fatalities.” Families of the victims of the Limpopo multiple-vehicle crash in which 27 people including two children were killed are expected to start to identify the bodies of their loved ones at various hospitals on Sunday. Transport MEC Makoma Makhurupetje says the team includes family members. “I have already activated a multi-disciplinary team which includes our department, the Department of Health, which is dealing with pathologises, SAPS, the municipalities as well as Santaco. We want to appreciate Santaco’s help because we had a meeting earlier with them, because they are the ones who know who the next-of-kin of passengers were. Already we have requested that we meet with the families of the affected and make sure that we’re able to give them the necessary support until when their loved ones are laid to rest.” President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed sadness of the death of the victims, and has sent a message of condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones, also wishing those who are in hospital speedy recovery. Click below for more on the story: 